What is Christianity?
Author:
Miller. Dr. William M.
                  : translator
Kamal Moshiri
BELIEFS AND PRACTICES OF CHRISTIANS

By
          Dr. William M. Miller

Translated by
                K. Moshiri

           In collaboration with
T. Michelian

                          Table of contents
Title page
5 Translator's Foreword
7 Introduction by the author (My dear friend)
9 Who is God? -1
14 Who is a human? -2
17 What is sin? -3
19 Do you believe in prophets and angels? -4
23 What are the holy books of Christians? -5
  24) - (1 Old Testament
  25)-(2 New Testament
32 How was Jesus Christ born and what did he do? -6
45 Who is Jesus Christ? -7
51 What was Christ's work in the world? -8
55 What must a person do to be forgiven by God and saved from sin? -9

Title page
 57 Who is the holy spirit?-10
61 What is the Trinity Curve? - 11
63 What is the church? - 12
67 What are the religious duties and ceremonies of Christians? - 13
67 (1 prayer)
68 (2 days)
 69) (3) Sadaqah and charity
69 (4) Pilgrimages
 70) (5 Eids
70 (6) Sacred Rites
71 (7) Marriage
71 - What are the 14 moral teachings of Christianity?
74-15 What is the Christian belief about the future?
75 (1) The Return of Jesus Christ
 77) (2) general resurrection
 78) (3 final judgments
79 (4) Heaven and Hell
 80) (5) Death of believers
81 Conclusion

Translator's Foreword
Dr. William Miller, author of the book in 1919 by the Presbyterian Church
He came to Iran from the United States to serve as a religious missionary at the American Mission and in
1962 After 43 years of glorious and unparalleled service, he sat down again and left the country of Iran.
He left Turkey and is now serving his country with the same ability and passion.
This book is one of the fruits of my retirement service, which I have been working on for a long time.
It seems that Dr. Miller left behind other valuable books of his in Persian.
You can read "History of the Ancient Church in the Roman Empire and Persia" and commentaries on the Gospels of Luke and
John and the Acts of the Apostles and Paul's letters to the Romans and 1 Corinthians were counted among the books.
His "Path to Salvation" is one of the outstanding books of Nur-e-Junhan Publications, which
It became scarce in a short time and was reprinted as needed, and some of the
His books, which were written in English, quickly became scarce.
One of Dr. Miller's outstanding qualities is that he can understand the deepest topics.
Express it in very simple words and in a way that is understandable to the general public. It may be
This is why he is considered a prominent and capable interpreter of the Bible.
He was one of the few missionaries in Iran who always had a vision.
His teacher should spend his time, money, and life in the advancement of the Kingdom of God. Most of his
He was called the friend of the poor and the suffering. His place of residence was always the center of spiritual services and
It was spiritual. It was impossible for him to contact anyone and not mention his teacher.
In fact, speaking and testifying about his master is not only a part of his life but also a part of his life.
He went on long and continuous trips for religious affairs throughout Iran, even to
The extremely difficult and difficult circumstances had made him a distinguished and unique missionary.

6
William Miller played a major role in the establishment of the Church of Christ in Iran, and his name is
He will always remain in this country forever. One of the fruits of his service has been that
Now that years have passed since his departure, the Presbyterian Church of Iran is continuing its services.
Miller's students are still not without need.
The creation and printing of this book has been one of my long-standing wishes because
A book that can express Christian beliefs and principles simply and at the same time comprehensively.
And it answers many questions, and they are now available in one volume in Persian.
It hasn't been.
The book "What is Christianity?" leaves nothing unclear or unspoken about Christianity.
and at the same time express the deepest matters in a sincere, concise and simple manner.
The author has done so with skill and ability, and after half a century of experience in Christian service and
The author himself presents such a prominent and profound book to his Iranian friends.
He will count every person who reads this book as one of his close friends and
This phrase "dear friend" is found a lot in this book.
Translation of such books that deal with Christian principles, beliefs, and practices
The simplicity of the writer's pen has not made his work easy; because the translator of such a book
It should be familiar with the principles and terminology of the Christian religion, as well as with the thoughts and theories of the author.
And be more familiar with it so that you can handle it well and at the same time keep the trust in the translation.
Preserve.
The translator has had the honor of knowing Dr. Miller for many years and is familiar with his thoughts and beliefs.
He was familiar with it, and in fact, it was this motivation that led him to undertake the translation of this book.
However, it must be acknowledged that without the cooperation and guidance of my dear friend, Mr.
Michael, who is a skilled and experienced translator, always dares to translate.
The book would not have appeared, and this important collection would not have been translated and prepared so urgently. Therefore,
They are indebted to the sincere efforts of their quarter-century-old friends, who also
The author is a close friend and would like to express his heartfelt gratitude.
In conclusion, it is hoped that this book will be able to fulfill some of Dr. Miller's wishes.
To fulfill his mission in making his Savior known to the public.

7 Introduction
My dear friend:
I hope you are healthy and happy in body and spirit. My sincere best wishes.
I present and thank God for your friendship and companionship. I am interested, Mr. Ali.
To find the truth and guidance towards righteousness and truth and the path that leads to God and His salvation.
It has caused me deep joy. In the past, there were many questions around
You have been observing the beliefs and practices of your Christian friends, but have not had enough time to do so.
I will provide you with all the information you have been looking for. Therefore, I have decided
I have decided to write this rather long letter to explain the details and explain that I am U.
Who are we Christians, what are our religious duties, and what are our customs?
As you know, today nearly one billion people around the world
They call themselves Christians. Some of them are true believers, and some, unfortunately, are just
They are nominal and outward Christians. Just as some religions are divided into sects,
Christians also differ from each other in terms of beliefs and worship rituals, and they differ in
The diversity has been divided, so it is not possible for me to include all the differences in this letter of belief.
Let us express a Christian or state a demand that all Christians in the world agree with.
But I am sure that there are millions of Christians all over the world who truly believe that
You agree with what you read in this letter. I pray that you will read this description carefully.
Christianity; Get closer to God, know Him better, love Him more, and
Obey Him more fully. Now I will try to answer your questions one by one.
                                                                                            Dham

8

9 What is Christianity?
- 1Who is God?
My dear friend, I am sure your first question will be: "Christians in
What do they believe about God? "The most important issue in any religion is belief and
The ideas of that religion are about God. I know that informed people have told you that
Christians worship three gods, some even imagine that they are the cross and even
We worship and venerate human statues and images. It is necessary
Let me assure you that these words are completely false. True Christians are connected to God.
They believed in the true unity of Allah, and if some of them worshipped other gods,
They have committed the greatest mistake. Notice; Jesus Christ spoke to the person who asked him
When asked what God's greatest commandment was, he replied: "The Lord our God."
God is one, and you must love God with all your heart, all your soul, and all your mind.
"And you shall love with all your heart, for this is the first of the commandments." (Mark 12:29-33)
All the prophets of God in the old days had announced that the mountain of God is one and the same.
Those who worshipped gods other than the one true God raised a cry of protest against the
.
Christians also believe in a God who had no beginning and will have no end.
Because God is eternal and everlasting. We believe in God who is aware of everything.
He has and possesses all powers and created all things visible and invisible by His word.
It is created.

Who is God? 10
If someone looks at the sun and the moon and millions of stars and tries to see even a fraction of them,
Understand the greatness and splendor of creation; naturally, he will be like the prophet David: "The heavens"
"The heavens declare the glory of God; the skies proclaim the work of his hands" (Psalm 1:19).
How great is the wisdom and power of our God that He not only created the galaxies in the infinite space,
And He created the smallest flowers and insects on earth, but He preserves them! Almighty God
He is absolute and can do whatever he wants. He has a plan for this world.
He has done it, and nothing can stop him from carrying out his purpose.
We believe that God is not only great and powerful, but also just and holy.
In the past, the Greeks and Romans, who accepted several gods, thought
That the gods, like humans, lie and steal, murder, commit adultery, and do evil deeds.
They do something else. But in the Christian Bible, they talk about the perfect holiness of God.
There are many indications that he is completely free from any kind of impurity.
One of God's servants saw in a dream heavenly beings standing in the presence of the Holy One.
God; they worship Him and say, "Holy; Holy; Holy; God Almighty."
Absolute (...Revelation 8:4) Therefore, although all powers are held in the power of God,
But He cannot do anything that is contrary to His holy nature. For example, God cannot lie.
Say or do something unfair.
It is certain that God does not have a body like humans and does not have a specific time and place.
It is not limited, but is always present everywhere.

11 What is Christianity?
Although we sometimes speak of our hands, eyes, and hearts, these terms
We use the physical to express spiritual and moral purposes. Because God, who is Most High,
And He is much higher than us; I believe that He is very close to us at the same time.
Therefore, we say that He sees us with His eyes and protects us with His hands.
He says and loves us with his heart.
Although all of God's attributes are of great importance to us, we Christians are especially
Let us be thankful that the God we worship and praise is a God of love. This attribute
God is so important that the Bible emphasizes that “God is love” (1 John 1:1).
(8:4; that is, whatever God thinks and does is out of love. God is love.
It manifests itself in various forms, including human beings.
Human needs such as rain and floods, food, water, clothing, and other fuel supplies
The necessities that are necessary for human life on earth. He also loves
He made himself known to us by sending prophets to speak to us about him.
His greatest act of love was sending the Savior, which will be explained later in this chapter.
Most of them were given to me. God loves all the people He has created and has made provision for them.
He wanted goodness and happiness. David sought God's attention and guidance in
These words are very interesting and beautiful: "The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want."
I would not have been. He makes me lie down in green pastures; he leads me beside still waters.
"He restores my soul and leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake" (Psalm 23).
(3-1):

Who is God? 12
Of course, it is very natural that God loves and obeys those who seek Him.
He loves; but does he love those who do not obey him? It is certain that
Because He is holy, He loves all good and hates all evil.
When people commit evil acts, the mountain is hated by God; God
He becomes angry towards such people, as Prophet David says to God: "From all of them."
"You hate those who do evil" (Psalm 5:5) God shows His hatred for evil by punishing it.
Those who follow evil and do not obey it will be revealed. When the Bible
We read and consider how God treats individuals and also nations who oppose Him.
He arose and repented (i.e., felt remorse for his evil deeds).
They tried to destroy it.
But now, allow me to tell you a valuable and interesting truth.
While God hates the wicked, He also wants to destroy them from all sides.
Their sins gave them freedom and salvation. He loves them and is like a father who exists with them.
The son of Amer considers her insignificant, yet he still loves her and cherishes her. That
This is God's amazing love for sinners through one of the stories of Jesus Christ.
It is clearly shown. In this story, Jesus Christ is mentioned; the boy who
His father, while still alive, asked him to leave his inheritance to him. The son then
He left his father's house after receiving his inheritance and squandered all his wealth on a life of wickedness.
Amy was lost. But when she was struck by something, she lost all her possessions and
Hunger came close to death; he decided to return to his father and confess his sin.

13 What is Christianity?
Confess. His father, afraid to see him, ran away from home to Switzerland and took him to
He hugged and kissed her and threw a big party to celebrate her return. Since
His father, Nassab, had deep love for him, forgave him, and saved him who was drowning in his sins.
Jesus Christ said that in the same way, those who sin against him love him.
(Luke 11:15-24) Dear friends; knowing that God loves us and
He is willing to forgive us and is ready when we return to Him and repent.
Accept it; it is very good and heartwarming news for us sinners.
In the Bible, many letters are mentioned about God, including:
Almighty; God; Jehovah; Eternal; Living; Exalted; Holy; Just; King; Judge;
Creator; Savior and Shepherd of the people. But that name that we Christians love most of all is
You have the phrase "in heaven". When Jesus Christ was in God's presence,
He said that he often addressed him as "my father" and told his disciples when they prayed.
They say, "Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name" (Matthew 9:6).
There is no greater honor for a human being than to become a spiritual child of God and to know
Is Almighty God his loving Father? This great honor is bestowed by God upon all who are
Those who believe in Jesus Christ will be forgiven.
While reading the above material, you may have wondered what the purpose of
What do Christians think of the "Holy Trinity"? If this question has come up for you, please
Please wait until I explain this important belief to you later.

Who is a human? 14
– 2Who is a human?
Dear Grammarian, this is a specialized article about the Christian faith in God.
The offer has been received. Now we will try to tell you that Christians are
What is the view of human nature and human nature? Because they have the right belief in the matter.
Humans are as important to us as having correct information about God. Of course.
Our information and knowledge about man is obtained primarily from the Bible.
At the beginning of the Bible it is written that when God created the heavens and the earth,
And He finished all the plants and animals, then He created man in His own image; He
He created man male and female (Genesis 1 and 2). Of course, these matters are not meant to be
It is not that God has a body and created the human body in the likeness of His own body; rather, the purpose of this
It is said that man was created spiritually in the likeness of God Himself; God gave man reason so that he could reason.
He gave him a heart so he could love with it; He gave him a conscience so he could do good.
He gave me discernment; He gave me the will to do good works; He gave me the gift of tongues so that I could
He gave him the spirit to speak and to have fellowship and friendship with God through it.
.God created man in His own image so that he could know God and walk with Him.
Therefore, man is considered the most noble of God's creatures.
Some people have mistakenly thought that man was God at that time. But the Almighty God is certain.
This is because man was very close to God and perfectly pure because there was still sin in him.
There was no human being like a machine.

15 What is Christianity?
Rather, God gave him the will to have the freedom to choose. In fact, God created man free.
So that he may freely and willingly obey, love, and serve his Creator.
God's desire and longing was for people in the world to be His spiritual children and to worship Him.
As a father, we love one another as brothers and sisters and joyfully do God's will in this world.
Today, in this technological world of ours, there are different races that, from a scientific point of view,
Their appearance, color, skin, and language are different, but they are all from the same blood and one family.
They belong, and the love of God, who created all mankind, encompasses all.
But unfortunately, it must be said that God's will and desire for man was not fulfilled. Man was instead
To use one's free will in the way of obedience and service to God, as opposed to in the
The second and third chapters of Genesis mentioned used this talent of theirs to oppose God.
God commanded our first parents, Adam and Eve, to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.
This tree was in the middle of the Garden of Eden, where God put the man. God
He told them that if they disobeyed him and ate the fruit of this tree, they would surely die.
The man, the devil, entered the garden in the form of a serpent and persuaded Eve to eat the fruit of that tree.
Then Eve gave it to Adam, and Adam ate of the fruit. This was the act of our first parents.
It was not just a common mistake or a mistake of thought, but a deliberate rebellion against
The Creator. In other words, they wanted to become God. They were unwilling to submit to the will of God.
They did not want to turn back, but they wanted to fulfill their desires. What was the result? God divided them.
He rebuked him and drove him out of the garden to live in a world full of pain and suffering.

Who is a human? 16
To live.
The worst thing was that Adam and Eve lost that unity and closeness with God.
And as a result, they were completely changed. Previously they were holy and chaste, but now they are dirty and sinful.
They were able to do well what God expected of them before they disobeyed.
They knew the truth, but they did not have the strength to follow it.
They did not have any. Gradually they came to hate what was good and to love what was evil.
This rebellion against God is called sin in the Bible, and the result is death.
It is.
This account of man's first sin is of utmost importance to us because through it we can
Let us understand the current state of man. The people of the world are like Adam and Eve at the beginning of creation.
They were not chaste and holy. To understand this truth, we do not need to look at others, but
We just need to look into our hearts. Do we often do what we know is wrong?
Can't we sleep? We would like to point out that lying is not true, but your words are my testimony.
We say it wrongly. We know very well that love is better than hate; but why do so many people hate each other?
We hate! Why do we do these things? Because we inherited our sinful nature from our first parents.
We have inherited its contamination and, like them, we have neither the desire nor the power to change it.
Let us fulfill God completely.
When a child is born into the world, he or she is seemingly pure and innocent, but soon
Evil was revealed in him, just as David said about himself: "This is what
"I was shapen in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me" (Psalm 51:5).
We all have to admit it.

17 What is Christianity?
We must accept that all mankind are sinners and agree with the Word of God which says:
"The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked: who can understand it?" (Jeremiah 11:11)
(9:17) That is why Jesus Christ said, "That which comes out of a man is that which
which defile a man. For from within, out of the heart of man, proceed evil thoughts and adulteries.
And immorality, murder, theft, greed, wickedness, deceit, lust, and an evil eye, and
Pride and ignorance. All these things come from within and defile a person.
"(Mark 7:21-23) God, who turns the hearts of all mankind to good.
"No one is fair; there is a new one" (Romans). (10:3)
There is only one exception, who is greater and higher than man, and I will talk about him later.
I would like to give some explanations.
So the human condition is very deplorable! As a result of disobedience
He has severed his relationship with God and is like a lost sheep wandering in the wilderness.
And it is dry and close to death.) (6:53 like other spiritual children of God
He is an enemy of God and a slave of Satan (Romans 6:17). Because he can no longer be in
Walk in the holy way of God, for you are dead in sin (Ephesians 1:2).
As God told Adam, the result of sin is death – physical and spiritual death.
– What are the 3 sins?
My dear friend, now I must try to make it perfectly clear.

What is sin? 18
What is sin? Sin is only doing wrong things such as stealing, adultery, drunkenness, etc.
It is not murder. Sin is essentially separation and distance from God and includes all things that are
It is against the holy will of God. Sin does not only include evil deeds but also pride;
Jealousy, hatred, and lustful thoughts are also considered sins. Jesus Christ said that two
The greatest commandment of God is to love our God with all our heart and to love our neighbor as ourselves.
Love thyself as thyself. (Mark 12:29-33) These are the two commandments.
They are the essence of God and for this reason, we fail to love God perfectly, and so do we.
Failure to love others fully is considered the greatest sin. Has anyone found
Is it possible to have completely implemented these rules? No; all people have implemented these rules.
They are broken except for Jesus Christ who was completely innocent. He had a perfect life. That's it.
It is the perfect life that God expects us to have. This is His commandment.
"Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect" (Matthew 5:48).
But how can we, sinful humans, whose hearts are full of evil?
To be good and innocent as God has commanded? A person who has cancer.
He doesn't need to hear advice about health rules. What he needs is
It is from a skilled and wise doctor who is able to heal him. Likewise, a person who
He is afflicted with the disease of sin, and he needs the law, laws, and moral and ethical principles.
The command and prohibition cannot be fulfilled, but rather a spiritual doctor is needed who can heal him.
Transform him and create in him a new mind, heart, and will, and give him the strength to
He can do what God

19 What is Christianity?
He wants him to do it. Obviously, all people need someone who can
May He save them from sin and make them children of God. Later I will explain that God
How, out of His great mercy, has He provided such a Savior for the world?

-4- Do you believe in prophets and angels?
Dear friend, now I would like to answer your other question about the Christian belief.
I will answer about the prophets. Yes, Christians believe that God sent prophets to you through
They brought His word to the people. Because of sin, most people did not want to hear the voice of God.
They could hear, or they could not hear because of spiritual deafness; but men and
There were women who repented and accepted God's forgiveness. God spoke to them.
He spoke and commissioned them to convey His message to others. From that moment on, they
They became prophets of God.
Our information about the prophets comes from the Bible, which includes
It is a description of the lives, statements, and writings of some of the prophets who were sent to convey the divine message.
They were chosen by the people. The names of some of the prophets mentioned in the Bible are:
Abraham; Musa; Aaron; (Musa's brother), Maryam (Musa's sister), Nathan, Samuel
; David; Elijah; Elisha; Isaiah Jeremiah Younes; Joel Daniyal and Yahya Udaim Ude DhanUde Kueh
The last prophet before the coming of Jesus Christ was Abraham, who was the friend of God and the father of
Believers are called to be chosen by God to be the father of many nations.
In his old age, he gave him a son who

Do you believe in the prophets and angels? 20
From his wife Sarah came into the world and his name was Isaac. Abraham obeyed God's command.
He was ready to sacrifice his son Isaac, but God provided a ram as a sacrifice instead.
Isaac provided (Genesis 1:22-19). Then God promised Abraham that from
The righteous generation will be saved and blessed by God, and this promise is fulfilled in Jesus Christ.
It was fulfilled. After Jesus, other prophets (or apostles) like Peter and Paul appeared.
They preached the word of God to the people and taught them to believe in Jesus Christ.
Believe. We believe that these were the last prophets of God, but in a way everyone's message is different.
A person who truly brings God to people may be called a prophet.
Considering that the Christian belief regarding prophets differs from some other beliefs,
Followers of other religions have some differences; I would like to point out a few important facts:
-1. The number of prophets is unknown and we do not know the names of many of them.
-2 All the prophets that we know are from the descendants of Abraham, the friend of God, and his son Isaac.
They were.
-3 Prophets were sent by God during a period that lasted for about two thousand years.
They were sent.
4- Prophets were generally sent to Israel, the people chosen by God.
That they would be His chosen people, and through them the divine truths would be made known to all the people of the world.
.
-5 The prophets were not innocent; they were people of faith whose sins had been forgiven.

21 What is Christianity?
6- The prophets emerged from independent social classes; some were wealthy; some were
Poor; some educated and some uneducated; some old and some young.
They were.
-7 Some prophets, such as Elijah and John the Baptist, did not write books, but some did.
Like Moses, David, Isaiah, John, and Paul, they wrote down God's message.
Future generations will also be able to read.
-8 God's Word was revealed to the prophets in various ways. Some of God's words
They heard; some received his message through angels; some in dreams and
Some had dreams and, without any doubt, understood God's message with their minds and hearts.
They were doing so. However, they were all confident that God had spoken to them and that they could
They can confidently tell people, "Thus says God."
-9 He gave some prophets, such as Moses, Elisha, and Peter, the power to perform miracles.
The truth of his message was proven by the means he used. But some, like John,
The gods did not perform any miracles.
Jesus Christ appeared and explained to the people who God was and the prophets who came before him.
What did he want from them and warned them that God would punish those who disobeyed him?
He also gave them good news that if they would turn from their sins and turn to God,
Return; God will forgive them and bless them. Through Moses; who alone is a prophet
He was the bringer of the law and the laws; God gave many laws to the people of Israel. The prophets who came after
Moses came and encouraged the people to obey God's laws given through Moses.

Do you believe in prophets and angels? 22
It was possible for them to obey. But because man was a sinner, he could not keep the holy laws.
To obey God completely, the law could not save them.
But like a mirror, it showed people their sinfulness and made them aware of it.
How much they need a savior.
One of the most prominent deeds of the prophets was to tell people that God would save them.
He will send the gift that the people of the world need. When
I want to write to you about Jesus Christ, some of the great promises that are in
I would like to mention the books of the ancient prophets.
There are numerous references in the Bible to creatures other than humans.
Created by God and usually called angels, they are God's messengers.
Who were often sent to reveal God's will to prophets and other believers.
Angels appeared in human form to Abraham, Moses, and others. Only two angels were named.
God, namely Michael and Gabriel, are mentioned in the Bible. It was Gabriel who appeared to Mary.
He announced that he would have a son named Jesus.
In addition to the holy angels who are obedient to God, according to information from the Bible
The Holy Spirit is obtained; there are other spirits who are disobedient and enemies of God, and the chief
They are called Satan and the Devil. Many Christians think that Satan was created by God.
He was created pure, but due to pride he disobeyed God and as a result he and the other spirits
Who followed him to a high and holy heavenly position

23 What is Christianity?
They lost themselves and now they are trying with all their might to carry out God's work.
The earth is a desolate and corrupt place. It was Satan who deceived Eve in the Garden of Eden and led her away.
Time has always tried to turn people away from God. It even tried to turn Jesus Christ away from God.
He was willing to disobey God, but he did not succeed (Matthew 1:4).
(11) Satan has great power, but he can never be equal to God.
Under God's control. Christians should not be afraid of him or his evil spirits who possess body and soul.
Many people are afraid to be hurt. With the power that Christ gives us
We would have such strength that we could resist him and drive him away from us.
Let's go. In the end, God will cast Satan out of this world into eternal fire.
Revelation (10:20)

– What are the 5 holy books of Christians?
Dear friend, now to answer your question about the Christian Bibles.
I will give you a tip. As you know, since ancient times, Jews and Christians have been called "People of the Book."
They would be, and in fact, this title is very appropriate and fitting. Because Jews and Christians
They have proven their deep interest in preserving and safeguarding their Holy Bible.
What are the books that Christians consider "holy"? The Christian Bible
It consists of 66 books collected in one volume, and the entire Bible.
It is read. The Bible has two parts called the Old Testament and the New Testament.
Now about

What are the holy books of Christians? 24
We will discuss these two parts separately.
                                                                                - 1 Old Testament
This section includes 39 separate books, all of which are called the Holy Bible.
It is accepted by Jews and Christians. This book is written in Hebrew by the authors.
Various books were written over a period of more than a thousand years. The first five books are called
The Torah or Pentateuch is known as the Pentateuch. The contents of these five books were given by Moses and
Others, guided by God, collected and wrote down ancient documents.
The first book is called Genesis. It begins with the description of the creation of the world by God and continues with the
It talks about Adam and Eve, Noah and the flood. It also tells us what Abraham was like.
By God's command, they left their homeland, which was in Iraq, about two thousand years before the birth of the Turks.
and went to Palestine, that is, the mountain land promised by God. This book
The lives of Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph, who were sold into slavery in Egypt by their brothers.
He became a minister and later became Pharaoh's minister. The other four books of the Torah state that
How did God give Moses the power to lead the people of Israel, who were descended from twelve sons?
Jacob (Israel) was the leader. And how about in the year 1300 BC?
He brought them out of Egypt and guided them to the land of Palestine. These books are the same.
It contains all the laws that God gave to His people Israel through Moses on Mount Sinai.
He said.
After the Torah, there are several historical books that describe

25 What is Christianity?
How did the people of Israel, under the leadership of Joshua ibn Nun, conquer Palestine and how did God
He sends the prophet Samuel to anoint David as king around 1000 BC.
Israel anointed. These books tell us that David, who was both king and prophet,
How he defeated all his enemies and how his son Solomon built a temple for worship.
God built in Jerusalem. After Solomon; the country was divided into two parts and his sons
They ruled over the tribe of Judah in Jerusalem until Jerusalem was finally conquered in 586 BC.
It was conquered by the armies of the king of Babylon. Many of the Jews were taken captive to Iraq and
The Persians were defeated, and after fifty years, Cyrus the Great of Persia conquered Babylon.
He encouraged and guided the captive Jews to return to Jerusalem and rebuild the temple of God, which had been destroyed.
It had been rebuilt. They did this work, but after 586 BC.
No more kings from the line of David ruled over Judah because Palestine was under foreign rule.
After the historical books of the Old Testament are the books of poetry, including:
The books of Job; the Psalms of David; the Proverbs of Solomon, etc. Then to the sixteen books by the prophets.
We will write various books, including: Isaiah; Jeremiah; Ezekiel; Daniel; Micah; Zechariah and
Maliki. The majority of these prophets lived in Judaism between 800 and 400 BC.
They were doing it. It seems that after the Prophet's reign (approximately 430 BC)
God has not sent another prophet since the appearance of John the Baptist, around 26 AD.
.
                                                                                      - 2 New Testament
The number of books that make up the New Testament is 27.

What are the holy books of Christians? 26
These books were written in Greek by approximately ten different authors over a period of fifty years.
It was written after the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. The term Old Testament refers to
It is the covenant that God made with his people Israel through Moses (Exodus 1:24).
"The New Covenant" refers to God's covenant with His new people, those who believe in Christ.
                                                 They believe (Jeremiah). Luke 31:31. (20:22
The first four books of the New Testament are called "Bibles" in Greek meaning
It is good news. These books were written by four different authors and
Each is a separate book about the life and teachings of Jesus Christ.
The Gospels do not contradict each other, but rather complement each other and are like four mirrors.
Which have been taken from one person in four different ways. Often new contracts are also needed.
It is called the Gospel.
The fifth book of the New Testament is the work of the Apostles. This book is published by
The spread of the Christian faith from Jerusalem to Rome within thirty years after the death of Jesus.
Christ speaks. This book is specifically about the Acts of two of Christ's apostles, namely
Describes Peter and Paul.
Then we come to the twenty-one letters, mostly written by the Apostle Paul and the Apostle Peter.
and John the Apostle. These letters were written to Christian groups in some cities of
The Roman Empire or were written to individuals. In these letters it is explained that
What faith should Christians have and how should they live? The latest book
It is called Revelation and describes the visions that the apostle John saw. This book shows
What punishments await?

27 What is Christianity?
The unbelievers are also the final victory of Jesus Christ and the glory of God's eternal kingdom.
Explains.
Although both Jews and Christians accept the books of the Old Testament, the Jews
They do not consider the New Covenant to be from God.
You may now be interested in knowing what Christians mean by the Bible, or the book they read.
God knows what it is. First of all, it should be known that we Christians do not believe that
God dictated the contents of these books to their various writers, just as a director of the department
He dictates a letter to his secretary. Because sometimes we read these different books.
We notice that they differ greatly in terms of style and writing method. They are like David.
Solomon did not write, and Paul's style also differed from that of John. In this way
The question may arise whether these books, written by individuals, are like any other.
Do the books that people have written contain errors in addition to the truth?
This is not the case at all. Because even though these books were written by human beings,
Therefore, Christians consider them to be the Word of God and believe that God created them through His Spirit.
He guided the writers that what they wrote was completely correct. We believe that
God revealed divine truth and His holy will to the prophets so that they could proclaim His message.
Let the people hear. In the same way, God reveals His truth to the people He has chosen.
Introduce them to write these books. Each of the authors has his own pen and characteristics.
Humanity itself is under

What are the holy books of Christians? 28
The dominion and guidance of the Spirit of God wrote His Word for us. In the Holy Bible or New Testament
We read thus: "For prophecy was not brought by the will of man, but men were moved by the Spirit."
"They were carried away and spoke from God" (2 Peter 1:21). They preached the word of God.
They spoke and they wrote it down. The Bible is the written Word of God.
Therefore, we Christians believe that the Bible is different from other books in the world.
It has everything. We believe that everything we need to know about God can be found in this book.
Through this book, we better understand our duty to God and to our fellow human beings because it
The Bible says about the Savior, Jesus Christ, that there is only one who
It can change sinful man and make the world the way God wants it to be.
Now let me explain a few points:
– The first point is that although there are different sects all over the world,
But they all agree on the truthfulness and authenticity of these 66 books, and they believe in them.
They know unique guidance about beliefs and ways of life.
– 2Christians never believed that later books abrogated earlier books.
have replaced them; for example, we do not believe that the Gospel has replaced the Torah.
Jesus said, "Do not think that I have come to abolish the Torah or the Prophets."
"I have not come to destroy, but to fulfill" (Matthew 17:5). Just as in the parable of the sower,
The books taught in the tenth grade never surpass the books of the lower grades.
They do not abrogate them, but rather complete them; in the same way as the Book after it was given by God.
They have been written.

29 What is Christianity?
They do not invalidate the previous ones; rather, they provide a more complete understanding to humans regarding the true knowledge of God.
Forgive me. Therefore, we Christians study all these books to learn all the lessons they teach.
God wants us to learn and learn well. If someone writes a book, tell him.
God is not consistent in the Bible; it is clear to me that such a book is
It is not on God's side because God never says anything contrary to His Word.
– 3. If you have been told that Christians have replaced or distorted their Bible,
They have done so, and the books that are now in the hands of Christians are not authentic; you must be assured of this.
I know that this accusation has no basis or foundation in any way. Christians have their own Bible.
They love you and never allow evil people to take you away from them.
Changes were made to it. In addition, today there are handwritten copies of the Bible in Greek.
It is believed to be over 1600 years old and the current translations of the book
The Holy Mass is performed according to these ancient manuscripts. May God reveal His Word to all.
The type of prayer is the form of the Holy Bible.
Translate part of it into all the languages of the world so that everyone can read it in their native language.
Read. The Bible or parts of it have been translated into more than 1,600 different languages of the world.
has been published. In all languages, God's message is the same. Did you know that the Bible
More books are published and distributed in the world each year than any other? Surely if I died
They believed that this book was false and inaccurate; it would never have been so popular.

What are the holy books of Christians? 30
It seems impossible that God would use His Word for guidance.
Mankind forgives and then allows it to be replaced, so that people may go astray. Good; God Himself
The Holy Word has been and will be preserved for thousands of years from any interference, manipulation, or change.
Therefore, this book is completely reliable.
– 4 One of the strange and interesting things about the 66 books of the Bible is that
Although these books were written by various authors at different times during a period of
Written in the field of writing for 1500 years, the message of all of them is the same. This book says God
Who is He, what does He want from mankind, and what has He done to save sinful mankind? This is the subject.
It shows that the true author of these books is God, not the people who wrote them.
– 5 other remarkable points about the Bible are that it is easy to understand.
Although this book was written long ago in ancient languages, it can be read in the
It has been translated into every language in the world today, and every literate person can understand its message.
Understand. I have heard many times about men and women in the most remote places in the world who are without
No teacher has come to know God and repent of his sins by studying only a portion of the Bible.
They have been saved. Of course, prominent teachers are there to help introduce the Word of God and to advance and
Spiritual development; written books and councils of Christian churches, creeds, letters
They have organized a system that shows the true path and truth to believers. But usually if
A person who studies the Bible carefully will notice that this book itself
Explains its contents.

31 What is Christianity?
And it illuminates the Bible, which tells us what we need to know God.
Teaches and provides sufficient information about salvation and our duty to God and people.
Therefore, every Christian has the privilege and duty to read the Holy Bible.
Study it and, with the help of other Christians and the guidance of the Holy Spirit, apply it to yourself.
Interpret. Many Christians have the habit of reading a portion of the Bible every day.
Study it and engage in research, reflection, and meditation on its teachings.
You may be wondering why I didn't mention that the Bible was written by Jesus Christ.
And now that God has given us Jesus Christ, in fact, we know where we are.
Jesus did not write any books and did not have any books in his hands that were given to him by God.
Be. Then he explained himself to me. He himself was the living Word of God, and God through him.
His character, actions, and words spoke to the people. He was the perfect manifestation and manifestation of God.
That is why God guided Matthew, John, Paul, and other disciples to write this book.
which is a picture of Jesus Christ. These books help us to
Let us observe the life of Jesus and listen carefully to the message of God that reaches us through him.
My dear friend, therefore, from what I have written, you will consider carefully that the book
The Holy Quran is of great importance and it is obligatory and necessary for everyone to study it carefully.
Or listen to its contents, because only from it can one understand the truth of Christianity and the way of salvation.
He understood. I hope you will prepare a volume of the Holy Bible soon and first

How was Jesus Christ born and what did he do? 32
Study the New Testament; then return to the Old Testament because after
Studying the New Testament will help you better understand the Old Testament. I hope God will use every
The page speaks to you from its holy word.

– 6 How was Jesus Christ born and what did he do?
Dear friend, now we come to the most important part of the explanation of the Christian faith and
It is about who Christ is and what his relationship is with God and man. First,
A summary of his life story on the ground as found in the four Gospels.
I would like to mention it.
One day the angel Gabriel announced to a virgin girl named Mary that
She will have a son, and you are to name him Jesus. He will be called the Son of the Most High.
He will reign forever and ever (Luke 1:26-38). This event is a passage from the Bible.
It was the fulfillment of the prophecy of the prophet Isaiah, which was spoken more than seventy years before:
The virgin will conceive and bear a son (Isaiah 14:7).
A small town near Jerusalem called Bethlehem; where David was born a thousand years ago.
The birth of Jesus in Bethlehem was foretold by the prophet Micah, who, like Isaiah, was more than seventy years old.
He lived in the year before the birth of Christ and it was prophesied, "And you, O house of flesh, Ephrathah;
Though you are little among the thousands of Judah, out of you will come forth for me one who will
He will rule over my people Israel, and his goings forth are from of old, from everlasting.
"Is" (Micah 2:5)

33 What is Christianity?
When he was born, an angel announced this event to the shepherds near the manger, and so on.
He said... "Behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people,
"Today in the city of David a Savior has been born to you, who is Christ the Lord." (Luke 1:11)
10:2 and 11. (Mary became the wife of Joseph the carpenter, and Joseph took care of the baby Jesus.)
Jesus also took a position in his youth in the city of Nazareth, where he had grown up.
He was employed as a carpenter. He had no education for thirty years and no miracles.
They are waiting.
And the people did not know that he was the promised Messiah who was in
When Jesus was about thirty years old, the time came for him to complete the ministry he was to fulfill.
He had come into this world to begin. Therefore he left Nazareth and was baptized by John.
The messenger went away. At that time, John preached God's message to the large crowd that had gathered around him.
He leads them and calls them to repentance, and those who repented were baptized in the Jordan River.
A sign of purification from sin; baptism was given if Jesus had never sinned in his entire life.
He had not committed any sin. He asked John the Baptist to baptize him, and John baptized him.
He obeyed. When Jesus came up out of the water after being baptized, the Spirit of God descended on him like a dove.
It came down from heaven and rested on him, and Jesus and John heard the voice of God saying,
"This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." (Matthew 17:3)
I will explain the meaning of the title "Son." Then Jesus went into the wilderness and was there.
He fasted and prayed for four days. During this time, Satan tempted him.
He was tempted to disobey God, but he did not succeed (Matthew 4:1-11).

How was Jesus Christ born and what did he do? 34
After defeating Satan, Jesus returned to John. John saw Jesus.
He said to his disciples, "Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world...on whomsoever you see,
On whom the Spirit has come to rest, this is the one who baptizes with the Holy Spirit, and
"I have seen and testify that this is the Son of God" (John 1:29-34). John means "the Son of God."
To know Jesus as the Lamb of God meant that Jesus would be sacrificed for the sins of mankind.
Then Jesus began to choose disciples and from among them he chose twelve to be apostles.
These people were not great and educated men, because Peter and John
And some others wanted to be fishermen and to be fishermen, but they realized that Jesus was
He is the promised Messiah, and in the same way he left his various occupations and
Without waiting for money or material support; they will complete their studies within three years.
They followed him everywhere on foot. At that time Jesus sent them to
The things that were to be accomplished as his apostles after his ascension to heaven were ready.
He was doing it.
Then Jesus, like John, began to preach to the people and said: "The time has come."
"It is finished, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent, therefore, and believe in the Gospel."
Mark 15:1 Jesus preached the word of God in the synagogues, in the houses of the people, and when he was in the
Around him, on the hills or by the Sea of Galilee, they were ready to worship.
Those who heard his words were amazed at his wisdom and power of speech.
For he did not speak like the prophets, but like God. All the prophets had said: "Listen."
What God

35 What is Christianity?
He tells you, "But when Jesus spoke to the people, he said, 'I tell you,
I say ".
Jesus immediately began to heal the sick who came to him, and he healed them.
You heal my body by kissing it and by putting incense on it.
He was afflicted with leprosy and fell at his feet and said, "If you want, you can make me clean."
"Jesus answered, "My feet are clean." He laid his hands on the dead man.
He left a leper. The man was immediately completely healed (Mark 1:41-42). Many people helped him.
Those who were possessed by unclean spirits came to Jesus, and with his word he drove out the demons.
He went out and touched the eyes of the blind, and they received their sight.
He even brought some of the dead back to life. Naturally, large groups of people followed.
They set out, and Jesus was sometimes so busy teaching and healing people that
He had no time to eat. He forgot about his personal needs because
He always thought of loving others, never even once for his own personal gain.
He did not perform miracles and never used his power to amaze people. All
His miraculous works have been for the comfort and salvation of sick and suffering people.
The means of revealing God's love to them. One day I saw the poor and needy in
He saw them around him, calling them to him with this gentle and peaceful invitation.
"Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest."
Matthew 28:11 And he sent away none of them that came unto him.
Once, four men brought a paralyzed man to Jesus and laid him before him.
Jesus knew that this man had more than just healing.

How was Jesus Christ born and what did he do? 36
The body also needs spiritual healing. He said to him, "Son, your sins are forgiven."
"Some of the religious teachers who were present thought to themselves, 'Why is this man
"Does he say such a thing as blasphemy? Who is there besides God, the One, who can forgive sins?" Jesus
He understood their thoughts and told them that by healing the paralyzed man, He would prove that they were unbelievers.
He did not say, "He has power to forgive sins." Then he said to the paralytic, "You are my
"I say to you, arise, take up your bed, and go home." And the man obeyed Christ's command.
He did it immediately (Mark 1:2-13).
From then on, many of the Jewish religious leaders rose up against Jesus because
They were intensely jealous of Christ because of his popularity with the people.
They criticized Jesus for living with sinners and trying to save them.
They complained to him that he was doing this on the Sabbath (Saturday), which was their holy day.
Heals the sick. Soon their hatred became so intense that Jesus decided to
(Mark 2:15-3-6) Jesus was aware of this matter.
He could kill his wicked enemies with the same divine power that raised the dead.
He was a murderer, but he never did that. He taught his disciples to kill their enemies.
Love and pray for them. He behaved in the way he behaved towards his enemies.
He became an example and role model for his students.
At that time, the Jewish people were not independent because the Romans ruled over them.
The Jews had a great desire to be free from Roman rule. When
The Jews noticed that Jesus could feed them with five loaves of bread and two fish.
Five thousand people in the desert

37 What is Christianity?
He gave them food; they tried to force him to become their king (John 1:6-15).
They were certain that if Jesus commanded his army, no one would ever be able to defeat him.
He stood before them. But Jesus refused the earthly kingdom because his kingdom was
He was spiritual and intellectual. He wanted to rule over the hearts and minds of people, not over them.
The throne that was in Jerusalem. When the Jews realized that they could not use him as a tool for
To achieve their political and revolutionary goals, many of them have risen up in opposition and
They became his enemies; Jesus constantly avoided pleasing people and only sought
It was God's will.
Approximately two and a half years after the baptism of Jesus; at a time of Russian opposition and opposition
The Jewish religion had become strong towards him; one day Jesus asked his disciples:
"What do you call me, the Son of Man?" They replied, "I think a lot."
They say he is one of the great prophets of the past who has returned to the world again. Then
Jesus asked, "Who do you say I am?" Peter answered immediately, "You are the Messiah, the Son of God."
"The living God." Jesus praised Peter for his answer and told him,
God had revealed this truth to him and added that on this truth His church
He will establish it, and no force will be able to disturb it. Then he will tell the Messengers
The leaders of the UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUuUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU and
He was condemned and crucified, and on the third day he rose again. The apostles who
They loved themselves and were greatly troubled by this prophecy, and Peter said to Jesus,
"Far be it from you, Lord! This shall never happen to you." But Jesus

How was Jesus Christ born and what did he do? 38
He rebuked Peter and said that his thought that Christ should not die was of the devil, because
Jesus knew very well that it was God's will that he be sacrificed for sinners.
He died on the cross, and for this reason, anyone who tries to crucify Him will be condemned.
It is the instrument of Satan. Then Jesus informed his disciples that they too must be
Be ready to take up your cross and not hesitate to lose your life for his sake.
Matthew 16:13-26 Now when the disciples heard that their Master was going to die, they
They must also endure hardships for him. It was undoubtedly very difficult for them to leave him.
They followed him. However, they did not abandon their teacher and returned to him six months later.
They went to Jerusalem – the place where Jesus had to suffer greatly and give his life.
Make.
Spring has arrived in Palestine, and many Jews from near and far have come to
They were traveling to Jerusalem for their greatest annual religious festival, the Passover.
Participate. This celebration helped them remember how the nation of Israel was
Moses' leadership enabled him to escape from Egyptian bondage. Jesus and his disciples also did the same.
The congregation joined and went to Jerusalem for this feast. The events of the week, which were the last days of the
Jesus' life on earth is described in detail in all four Gospels. Here
I can only tell you a brief summary of it.
One Sunday while riding a donkey; according to the prophecy of the prophet Zechariah
A few years earlier, he entered Jerusalem. The prophet Zechariah had prophesied:
Daughter of Zion; be very glad.

39 What is Christianity?
And shout for joy, O daughter of Jerusalem; behold, your King comes to you; he is just and righteous.
"He is gentle and humble, riding on a donkey, and on a colt, the foal of a donkey." (Zechariah 9:9)
Then Jesus entered the temple and saw that the temple was full of money, and that the money changers and sellers were buying and selling.
They were making a mess and robbing the worshipers. Jesus drove them out of there.
He severely condemned a religion for its unbelief, hypocrisy, and wickedness, and he also
He prophesied that the great temple in Jerusalem would be destroyed as divine punishment for the sins committed by the people.
They would be completely destroyed by their enemies. He would protect the people from false prophets who would
He warned that they would come and try to lead them astray. He said that
The heavens will return with great power and glory, and they will judge all the nations.
And some he will admit into the kingdom of God, and others he will cast into eternal damnation.
He will condemn.
On Thursday night of the same week that Christians usually call Holy Week.
They say that Jesus celebrated the Passover meal with his twelve disciples.
At that time Jesus took a loaf of bread, blessed it, and gave it to his disciples.
He divided it and said, "This is my body which is broken for you. Give this as a memorial to me."
After dinner, there was also a cup of wine, which was always served by the Jews as part of the
At the Passover meal, he took the cup and said, "This cup is the new covenant in my blood."
"Do this, whenever you drink it, in remembrance of me." (1 Corinthians 11:23-26)
Jesus told his disciples that through his death a new covenant would be established.
Before they left the room, Jesus gave his disciples his most important teaching.

How was Jesus Christ born and what did he do? 40
And he told them that they had a duty to love one another. He spoke again to his disciples.
He reminded them that they must endure the hardships they would endure for his sake. In addition, they
He promised that after He went to Samson, He would send the Holy Spirit to guide them.
And help.
When midnight came, Jesus took his disciples out of the city into a garden to
The prayer was to prepare himself for death. The prayer he made to his heavenly father was as follows:
"Not my will, but yours be done." While he was still praying, a
of armed men led by Judas (one of the twelve disciples of Christ but who betrayed him)
(They entered the garden. Judas approached Jesus and kissed him, so that the group that was with him
They were in the dark of the night, so they wouldn't arrest anyone else. How easy it would have been for Jesus to
Destroy Judas and his companions with one word! But he did not do this, but himself.
They surrendered to him. When Peter drew his sword and attacked his beloved teacher,
He got up; Jesus did not stop him, and one of the enemies whom Peter had wounded
Healed (Luke 22:33-51) Then they took Jesus to a place called Ud.
Some of the religious leaders had gathered together to find a pretext to kill Jesus, but
They did not succeed. Finally, their leader put Jesus under oath and asked him, "Are you the Messiah?"
"Are you the Son of the Blessed God?" (Mark 14:61-64)
Just as the Jewish rulers could not execute anyone without the permission of the Roman government, so
Early on Friday morning, Jesus was taken to the palace of the Roman governor Pilate and put before Pilate.
They said that Jesus was an enemy of the Roman government and wanted to make himself king.
Pilate questioned Jesus and immediately realized that the accusation was false.

41 What is Christianity?
And for this reason he wanted to release him. But the Jewish leaders stirred up the crowd to
They demanded the execution of Jesus. Pilate, fearing a riot, refused their demands.
He surrendered and ordered Jesus to be crucified. Jesus was crucified.
He was taken outside the city of Jerusalem by Roman soldiers and crucified there.
They did. When they crucified Jesus, they were leading him to be killed.
He prayed, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do" (Luke 23:23).
(34) Because love is a wonderful thing, when someone asks God for forgiveness,
They are busy driving nails into his hands and feet!
Jesus could have asked his heavenly Father to take him out of the suffering.
He saved us on the cross and ascended to heaven, but he did not do so in his will. He is good.
He knew that it was God's will for him to suffer and die as a sacrifice for sinners.
The Buddha, for this reason, obeyed his heavenly father and within six hours
He suffered and was tormented on the cross; then at three o'clock in the afternoon He said: "O
"Father, into your hands I commit my spirit" (Luke 23:46). After this command;
John the Baptist was crucified. The soldiers pierced Jesus' side with a spear, and the officer in charge of Pilate
He reported that Jesus was dead.
Two of the leading Jews who had believed in Jesus went to Pilate and said,
They asked for Jesus, and it was given to them. They took down the body from the cross and laid it on the cross.
They covered it with fifty kilos of spices and perfumes, then wrapped it in linen, and placed it in a tomb in
                                                                                        inside

How was Jesus Christ born and what did he do? 42
A rock was carved out and looked like a cave on the side of a hill. Then a large stone was placed.
They placed a stone like a millstone in front of the tomb, and Pilate ordered it to be sealed and sealed.
And let the soldiers guard it so that no one can enter the tomb.
Jesus told his disciples many times that the mountain will be crucified and the day
The third will rise from the dead. They thought that Jesus was telling them a parable and
When he died and was buried, they had no hope of ever being able to bring him back to earth.
But on Sunday morning, when some of his disciples went to the tomb, they saw that the tomb was empty.
It is open. When they entered the tomb, they saw the linen cloths that had been wrapped around the body of Jesus, but
It was empty, meaning that Jesus' body was not in it. Later, Jesus, who had risen from the dead, appeared to some of them.
He appeared and spoke to them, and they recognized him. That night; with the existence that was in and
The window of the room where the disciples were gathered was closed; Jesus entered the room and
He spoke to them and assured them that he was alive.
Over the next four days, Jesus appeared to his disciples again in different places.
He appeared and explained to them why it was necessary for them to suffer and die. He
He also commanded his disciples to go into all the world and preach this gospel to the people.
That if they accept Jesus as their Savior and Lord, God will forgive their sins.
He said to his disciples, "Stay in Jerusalem for a few days, so that the Spirit may be given to you."
Find Jerusalem and be equipped for the task ahead. The end of the matter is after this.
He promised them that he would be with them until the end of the spiritual world; when he looked at him,
They were looking up to the sky.

43 What is Christianity?
He was taken away. Before his ascension to heaven, he never appointed a successor for himself, and
He never predicted that a prophet would come after him to take his place.
The disciples; when their beloved teacher disappeared from sight; they wept and lamented.
They did not pay, because they knew that he would always be with them in spirit, and according to the promise he had made.
He has said that he will return to this world one day. They spent their time with great joy.
They spent the night in prayer and waited to receive the Holy Spirit that Jesus had promised.
Which will be sent soon. Ten days after Jesus' ascension to heaven; on the occasion of the feast of Pentecost.
Pentecost of the Jews; when about one hundred and twenty of Jesus' disciples were gathered together,
They had come; a very strange event happened. They heard a sound like the sound of the wind, but in
There was no sound of wind. They saw something like tongues of fire descending upon them.
It is possible, but in reality there is no fire. Then they speak in various foreign languages that they have never heard before.
They were unlearned and spoke. Crowds from different lands gathered around the disciples.
They came and everyone heard God's message in their own mother tongue, and everyone was amazed by this event.
They became.
Then Peter stood up and addressed the people, saying, "Jesus promised to
Peter preached by the power of the Holy Spirit.
Why was it necessary for Jesus to die for sinners and how God raised him from the dead?
He is risen. He said that he and the other apostles had witnessed the resurrection of Jesus from the dead.
The dead were there and he encouraged people to repent and believe in Jesus Christ.

How was Jesus Christ born and what did he do? 44
They will come and receive forgiveness of their sins. The Holy Spirit made Peter's sermon the means to
Change the hearts of these people so that on that day three thousand of these Jews will be saved.
They believed and were baptized in water in the name of Jesus as a sign of their cleansing from sins.
After this event, the apostles and other disciples of Jesus spread the gospel of salvation in
The city of Jerusalem and other cities continued to grow, bringing many to faith. Later, the rulers
The Jews, as Jesus had prophesied, persecuted the believers and even
Some of them were killed. As a result, many of Jesus' followers fled Palestine.
They preached the gospel of Jesus wherever they went, so that many Jews were converted.
They believed in Jesus. Then God guided Peter to the house of a Jewish official.
He went and delivered the message of salvation to him and his family. All members of this family believed.
They came and were baptized and received the Holy Spirit. In this way it became clear that God wanted
is all human beings; that is, both Jews and Gentiles (i.e. non-Jews);
Find.
One of the Jewish leaders named Saul was a staunch opponent of the followers of Jesus.
He was busy arresting, imprisoning, and killing them. When I left for Damascus,
(or Syria) to arrest the believers there; Jesus Christ rose from heaven upon him
He appeared and said, "Why are you persecuting me?" When Saul saw the living Christ, he
He believed, and Christ made him one of his apostles. Later, he was called Paul.
He became famous and was more than anyone else in bringing the gospel of Christ's salvation to the Greeks and Romans.
He labored. In addition, the apostle Paul

45 What is Christianity?
He wrote thirteen of the New Testament letters.
People in the New Testament sometimes describe the development of Christianity after the crucifixion and
He reads the resurrection of Christ; he understands well that after Christ's ascension to heaven, his work
What Peter, Paul, and the other believers did was in fact a work that
Christ was doing it through them. Because he rose from the dead and is alive; contrary to what
Some people mistakenly think that it is no longer necessary for him to elect a successor.
He is always present to his followers.
May he have a kind and powerful God who is always alive and present to those who trust him.
They trust you to help.
The Amazing Development and Progress of Christianity in the First Hundred Years After the Death of Jesus
Christ was not accomplished through war and bloodshed, nor through political influence, nor by
The knowledge and wealth of Christians in all parts of the Roman Empire and also in Syria.
Many Jews and pagans in the lands believed in Christ and thus
Becoming children of God. This work is done through the proclamation of the gospel of God's love in Christ and through
The powerful activity of the Holy Spirit was put into practice in the minds and hearts of the listeners.

-7-Who is Jesus Christ?
Dear friend, I'm sure you want to ask a question now.
Many people would like to know the answer to this question, and it is considered one of the most important questions in the world.
It is: This prominent person whose biography is briefly recounted here.
Who is it? Books

Who is Jesus Christ? 46
Much has been written to answer this important question, and although it is difficult to
A person can briefly explain who Jesus Christ is; but I tried.
I did this because the only completely reliable source on this matter is the Bible.
All the points I will mention will be based on the Holy Bible.
It is known from the description of the life of Jesus Christ, which is found in the four Gospels.
It is possible that he was truly human. What if he did not have a physical father; but through his mother?
Maryam was from the lineage of David, the great prophet and king of Israel. Like Jesus, all people
He grew physically and mentally. He ate and slept. His occupation was carpentry. He
He became tired and with all the joys, sorrows, and sorrows that came before the people in this world,
He came; He became fully known. Therefore, He is able to be with us in all human experiences.
Show compassion (Hebrews 18:2 and 15:4) Because Jesus was human, he could
He should marry and have children, but he did not do so. Without a doubt, his decision in this matter was
The matter was taken in complete obedience to the plan God had for him.
But although Jesus was truly human, he was different from others in some ways.
There was a great difference. As explained before, all people; even the prophets and
The saints sometimes neglected to obey God and for that reason they were sinners.
Throughout Jesus' life, he never did anything, said anything, or thought anything that was contrary to God's holy will.
He was not seen. Therefore, he alone is a sinless man (1 Peter 2:22).
(John 5:3) Not only did he not sin, but his will was in perfect harmony with the will of God.
He is, in fact, the only perfect human being in the

47 What is Christianity?
This earthly world has lived.
People who saw Christ's actions testified that his power was amazing.
He once visited the blind mother of Anada and gave her sight. On another occasion;
When he and his disciples were in a small boat crossing the Sea of Galilee, a storm arose.
The great storm was about to overwhelm the boat, but Jesus rebuked the wind and the waves, and the sea became calm.
Immediately he calmed down; a man named Lazarus, who had been dead for four days, was raised from the grave.
They cried out, and the dead man rose immediately and came out of the tomb. But the greatest of all deeds
The amazing thing about Jesus is that, just as he had predicted, he rose on the third day after
Death rose and appeared to his disciples. Who could have done it except Jesus?
Do such things? Who do you know who will rise from the dead and never die again?
No one! So it is clear that although Jesus was indeed a man; yet he was one of the greatest.
Humans were also bigger. So who is he?
As I mentioned before, Jesus himself claimed to be the Son of God. He not only
At his trial before the Sanhedrin, and many times before that trial, he made these important claims in
The matter was not his own. He usually addressed God as "my father".
When He said, "I and the Father are one," His enemies wanted to stone Him because
They thought that Jesus was blaspheming. But we know very well that Jesus never lies.
And do not be a blasphemer, for all his commands are perfectly true and correct. You must believe in him.
Let us note that if someone says that Jesus is not the Son of God, he calls Jesus a liar.
What if Jesus is a liar? No one should have faith in him.
When

Who is Jesus Christ? 48
Jesus claimed to be the Son of God, in fact, the same declaration of God that he made at the time of his baptism.
He was heard from heaven repeating, "You are my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased."
) in Morocco. (1:11) in all the teachings of the apostles of Jesus, it is repeated many times
He is the Son of God, and all Christians in the world have always accepted this claim. Of course, note
You know that this term does not have a physical meaning, but rather a spiritual meaning.
It is said that God never married a woman to have a son from her, because such a thing would be
It is impossible and unimaginable.
In the Bible, Jesus is called the "Word of God." He is also called the "Son of God."
It shows Jesus' unity and oneness with God, who is his true Father; but the title "
The word of God tells us that God speaks to mankind through Jesus Christ.
In the Bible we read: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was God, and the Word was God."
He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made.
There was no being. In him was life, and the life was the light of man...and the Word became flesh.
And he dwelt among us, full of grace and truth, and we beheld his glory, the glory befitting the Son of God.
"The only begotten of the Father" (John 1:1-14).
The meaning of the above verses is that God, who had previously revealed Himself through the prophets and their scriptures,
He had made himself manifest, finally revealing himself completely through a perfect person.
He said, "This perfect person is much greater than a prophet and is in fact one with God."
Because these Bible verses tell us that this person is the Word of God and the Son of God.
He was one with God from the beginning, and all things were created by him. Then,

49 What is Christianity?
In due time, the eternal Word of God took on human form in the womb of the Virgin Mary and was born.
Jesus Christ appeared. Therefore, we see that He has two natures, or two
There were two aspects, one divine and the other human. Jesus Christ is both God and
                                                                                  I am human.
The first people who believed in Jesus and became his apostles were Jews.
And they had complete faith in the oneness and unity of God, especially after they had been in the region of two
They lived with Jesus for years, becoming fully convinced that their Master was one with God and
That is why Peter confessed, “You are the Christ, the Son of the living God” (Matthew 16:16).
When Thomas saw Jesus rising from the dead, he cried out (16)
"My God and my God" (John 20:28). In both cases Jesus
He praised his disciples for their faith in him and said to Thomas:
"Have you believed after seeing me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed." (John 1:20)
(29-24) "Kush Uu Uu Uu Uuu Uu Uu Uu Uuu Uu Uu UuUuUuUuUuUuUuU/U or UUuU and/or/
Let's be that he is the Son of God.
Now I know you want to ask: "If God is one, how is it possible?"
Is it true that Jesus Christ was the Son of God and was one with God? "In fact, this issue is
There are mysteries that are beyond our limited intellect. Why can anyone but God Himself understand them?
Can one understand the essence and nature of God? But we must realize that God is omnipotent.
And what is not against His holy will is not impossible for Him. Especially in nature, which
Created by God, we can, however imperfectly, be an example of this truth.
Let's observe the sun.

Who is Jesus Christ? 50
Consider the Sun, which is located in the sky and is so huge and hot that if it were to
The earth will come closer, everyone will leave the sky. The sun will give its light, which is in fact U with U
It itself is no different, it is the same, and through it it gives light and warmth to our world.
In this way, our great God, who is one with Himself, brings His light to our world.
It shines to give us life. God calls this light His Word and His Son. This
The light appeared in the form of Jesus Christ, who said of himself, "I am the light of the world,
"Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life" (John 8:12).
(When we look at the sunlight, we observe the sun, and also when
When we see Jesus Christ, we see God. Jesus said, "Everyone who has seen me has seen the Father (i.e., the Father)."
"He has seen God" (John 9:14). Therefore, we Christians are confident that God
He himself has come to us through his Son, Jesus Christ.
Dear friend, do you think it is strange that Almighty God would
Did the salvation of sinful man come into the world in this way? But do not forget that God is
It is a great size, it does all its work out of love, and by its coming
To the world, in the person of Christ, God's love has been fully revealed to us.
Without a doubt, you will love the story of the just king who loved the people of his land.
You may have heard how he sometimes laid aside his royal robes and put on the clothes of the poor.
He would put on a robe and go to the homes of the poor to talk to them and help them.
Of course, this incomplete and insufficient example only shows to some extent how the Son of God
that

51 What is Christianity?
He was one with the Father. He left the glory of heaven and came to earth and lived as a poor human being.
The Kurds revealed God's deep love to mankind and led them to God.
He said, "This kind of love is very amazing!"

– 8What was Christ's work in the world?
As we have seen, Jesus Christ came into the world to reveal God to mankind.
He will create and bring man closer to God and establish the kingdom of God on earth.
In Chapter 2, I explained how humans rebelled against God, and not just by
The wall of sin separated itself from the holy God, but became so weak that it could no longer stand on its own.
Obey God alone and live close to Him. So God decided
He broke down the wall of sin and changed the wicked heart of man, so that man would be
May he have the desire and the strength to love and obey God. God is the one who does this.
How did he do it? Now I am trying to explain one of the most important fundamental beliefs of Christianity.
                                                                                                 The tenth explanation.
As I mentioned before, the Holy God told Adam and Eve that if
Those who disobey will die. Our first parents obeyed God's command regarding self-control.
They disobeyed by eating the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and God sentenced them to death.
He did not punish them, but he also promised them that they would
Their children should not despair at all. Satan has appeared in the form of a snake and deceived them.

What was Christ's work in the world? 52
And for that reason, God had informed them that someone from their lineage who was from the "seed"
"The woman will strike the man in the head, and the man will strike her in the heel."
Genesis (15:3) God intended that a Savior would be born from the seed of the woman.
He will appear and overthrow Satan, but in doing so, he himself will
He will be wounded by the devil. This is the first promise concerning the coming of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
It was Mary who, by dying on the cross for sinners and by her resurrection,
The dead defeated Satan.
Long after this promise, God gave a clearer and more complete promise through Isaiah.
The prophet Isaiah had declared in his book, written hundreds of years before the birth of Christ,
It foretells the coming of a person who will endure suffering and torment on behalf of sinners.
Death will come so that they may be forgiven and live. Isaiah describes the outcome of this event as follows:
He prophesies: "He is wounded because of our transgressions and bruised because of our sins...
Because of his wounds, we were healed. All of us were like lost sheep.
"Lay on him the iniquity of us all, for he will bear their sins."
(Isaiah Chapter 53) This is the salvation that God promised, as a sacrifice.
He will sacrifice his life for the sins of mankind.
As I explained above, this was exactly what Jesus Christ did.
John the Baptist said that Jesus is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world.
John 1:29 (ESV) Jesus himself, before he was crucified, said that his blood would be shed for the forgiveness of sins.
The sins of many have been shed.

53 What is Christianity?
(Matthew 28:26) Then he voluntarily offered himself to be sacrificed.
By giving his life to save sinners, he demonstrated God's love for mankind.
He made and also showed his divine love. According to the apostle Paul, "When we
"While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us" (Romans 8:5). Jesus said, "God
For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish.
"not perish, but have eternal life" (John 16:3).
Since God is just, He will not forgive sinners except
The price for their sins has been paid. No one, even if they are prophets, can be as great as them.
It is not good and perfect that he can offer a sacrifice for the sins of all people or even for his own sins.
So God, because of his great mercy and love, appeared in Christ to forgive our sins.
Take upon yourself. Through the death of his Son, who is equal to him, God paid the penalty for all sins.
He has paid those who believe in Jesus. The Son of God is so highly exalted.
His sacrifice alone is enough to atone for the sins of the world, for this reason.
There is no other sacrifice for sinners. Jesus Christ kissed the dead.
Volunteers on the cross broke down the wall of separation between man and God and
It made it possible for sinners to be forgiven and draw close to a holy God.
Jesus not only revealed God better than any other person, but also through
His holy life and His deep love in dying for us sinners, will and intention
God revealed Himself to us. A believer in Iran once said to me:
Before I became a Christian, I thought I knew God, but in fact I didn't know Him.

What was Christ's work in the world? 54
"I didn't know. It was only when I saw God in Jesus Christ that I truly came to know Him."
Every seeker of God will find God in Christ.
Before I conclude this section about Jesus Christ, the Messiah is the Tenth.
I would like to mention some of his names and titles:
– His name is Jesus, which comes from a Hebrew word meaning "Yahweh saves."
"is" is derived.
- 2. His original name is "MasuuUuuh" which means "the one who has been cleansed".
He was anointed by God to be the eternal King. This is the same Hebrew title as "Messiah" which
Used by the Jews for a king whose appearance was foretold by the prophets.
It would be.
– 3He is "Immanuel," which means "God with us."
– 4 He is the "Son of God."
– 5 He is the “Word of God.”
– 6 He is the “Son of Man.” This is the same title that Jesus often uses in
He uses it when referring to himself. He is both God and man.
– 7 He is the "Lamb of God."
– 8 He is the "Savior of the world."
– 9He is the "King of Kings."
– 10 He is "God".
– 11 He is the “Good Shepherd.”
– 12 He is "the way".
– 13 He is "the truth".
– 14 He is "life".
– 15 He is the "bread of life."
– 16 He is the “true vine.”

55 What is Christianity?
– 17 He is a "perfect man."
– 18 He is the "judge".
– 19 He is the "high priest."
– 20 He is the "Resurrection".
– 21 He is the “God of glory.”

- 9 What must a person do to be forgiven by God?
To be saved from sin?
Dear friends, now we come to the question that is important to me and you and everyone.
The people of the world are of great importance. Since we know very well that we are sinners, we must ask God for forgiveness.
Let us ask Him to show us what we must do so that He will forgive us and bring us into His presence.
Accept it yourself. As you know, there are many different opinions on this matter.
Some people think that because they are of a particular race or follow a particular religion
are special, without a doubt, will be accepted by God. Others believe that
By doing good deeds, they can atone for their evil deeds and
In this way they will gain their salvation. Some also hope that one of the prophets or saints will
He will pray for them and will please God to forgive them. But the book
The Bible teaches us that we cannot gain eternal salvation through any of these means.
Let's bring it. No one is good enough to be accepted by a holy God.

What must a person do to be forgiven by God? 56
Is there no more hope for us sinners? Yes, thank God,
There is hope for us! What we could not do for ourselves, and what no one else can do for us,
A prophet could not do it for us, God has done it out of His great love.
The Bible says: "And he is the propitiation for our sins; and not for ours only, but also for all."
For the whole world...the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanses us from sin...if
If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
"...purify unrighteousness" (1 John 2:2, 7:1, etc.)
Therefore, we see that the way that God has opened for us sinners is
By which we come to Him and become acceptable to Him, that is, to Jesus Christ.
That is, the real sacrifice of the sins of the world and there is no other way. Because of Jesus.
He says, "I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me."
(John 6:14) God sent his Son to save the whole world.
Jesus invites everyone to come to Him. He says, "Whoever comes to Him,
You will not be rejected. The meaning of this statement is that everyone in this world is free from sin.
Hate yourself and sincerely repent and accept Christ, the Son of God, as your salvation.
Whoever accepts it will surely be forgiven. Everyone, young and old, rich and poor,
The educated and the uneducated, the good and the bad, can come to him. But one must know that faith
It is not just that we superficially know Christ as the Son of God. The meaning of faith in Him is
Christ is to entrust ourselves to Him as a sick person entrusts himself to the hands of
Dr. Hadzighi

57 What is Christianity?
He entrusts himself to God and trusts Him to heal him.
We Christians are happy that Christ, unlike Moses and other prophets, did not die.
And he is not in the grave. He is alive and is with us in spirit. Just as he was when
When a person lives in Palestine, they come to him to heal the sick.
Forgive me, He can save us today as He did in the past. Jesus is like the light of the sun,
He is with us on earth and in heaven with His heavenly Father. He is always present.
The Father is there, and there He continually prays for those who believe in Him. The Bible
He says: "For this reason also He is able to save those who come to God through Him."
"He is able to grant them eternal salvation, because he always lives to make intercession for them" (Hebrews 11:11).
(25:7) His death on the cross for us, and His constant prayer for us, are not only for our salvation.
Believers are not only effective in Hell, but they can also be used when they are in this world.
Keep the wicked living pure and holy. Dear friend, I pray with perfect sincerity.
I urge you and all who seek God to be willing to accept this divine gift of salvation.
Accept salvation through Christ. No one can earn it, but God does it as a gift.
He gave me a free gift on the condition that I put my faith in him.
Let's stretch out and accept it.

                         - 10 Who is the Holy Spirit?
As you remember, it was said before that when Jesus was resurrected by John,
The baptizer was baptized, and the Holy Spirit descended upon him.

Who is the Holy Spirit? 58
Likewise, before his death, Jesus promised that the spirit, which is called the Comforter, would be
He will continue to guide His apostles in the ministry that they must perform after His own ascension to heaven.
The Lord gave us guidance and strength. According to this promise, ten days after Jesus ascended to heaven,
The Holy Spirit descended from heaven upon all believers, and they preached the message of Jesus Christ.
They brought power to the people and as a result, several thousand people believed in Jesus Christ.
Who is the Holy Spirit? Some images of the mountain of the holy spirit of Al-Faresh and this mountain
There was a prophet. Others also imagined that the Holy Spirit was nothing more than a
It is not a holy force. However, from the Bible we understand that the Holy Spirit is
It is not God's creation, but the Spirit of God, and you are one with God. When you act
If we pay attention to the Holy Spirit, this matter becomes clear.
Jesus told the wise man Nicodemus that he must be born again.
He must be healed so that he can enter the kingdom of God. When Nicodemus asked in surprise how Jesus died,
An old man like him could be born twice. Jesus answered him that he was born again.
It is the Holy Spirit. It is obvious that just as only God can create physical life,
Let them create, just like that. Only God is able to give man spiritual life and make him a being.
A new one. When a person lives in sin, he is a child of the devil, but
God is able to change sinful man through His Holy Spirit, and when He
Man is born again, he becomes a child of God.
In addition, the Holy Spirit is the author of God's holy books, because he inspired the Old Testament prophets, such as
He taught and guided David and Isaiah. Likewise

59 What is Christianity?
It was the Holy Spirit who guided Matthew, Luke, Paul, and the other writers of the New Testament.
For the Scripture says: "Prophecy never came by the will of man, but
"Men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit" (2 Peter 1:21).
Just as the Spirit of God inspired and guided those who wrote the Bible, so too
This same spirit is the only true and real guide for those who read these books.
Jesus Christ said, "But the Comforter is the Holy Spirit, whom the Father has sent in my name."
He will teach you all things and remind you of everything I have told you.
                                                                           Ord" (John) (26:14
Of course, Jesus' followers were troubled by what Jesus had to say to them.
He was crucified and then ascended from this earthly world to heaven. But Jesus was
By His promise to send His Spirit to guide and empower them,
He comforted them and said that he himself would always be with them in spirit. Ten days later
From the time of Jesus, the Holy Spirit descended from heaven upon his followers and transformed them.
From that time to this day, the same Holy Spirit has been dwelling in the true followers of Christ.
and will remain in them, according to Jesus' promise (John 14:25-27).
We must pay attention to this important point: only the Spirit of God can open the eyes of the blind.
To open the eyes of sinners and enable them to know who Jesus Christ is, because the Scriptures
The Holy Spirit says: "No one can say that Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit." _First
(1 Corinthians 3:12) Therefore it is not surprising that those who do not have the Holy Spirit
They may know that Jesus is called "Lord" and "Son of God."
So the Holy Spirit gives believers new birth and knowledge.

Who is the Holy Spirit? 60
The truth is that God has told us who Jesus is. He will also open our eyes.
May we know our inner sins and enable us to repent and forgive our sins.
We say leave. As soon as a person believes in Jesus Christ, God will save him.
He forgives and accepts him as His child and grants him a new heart. But the nature of sin
His old self remains and continues to pull him towards evil and Satan.
It is always ready to tempt him to disobey God. However, the Spirit
The Holy Spirit within him helps him to resist Satan and has qualities within him.
It creates what is acceptable to God, such as love, purity, truth, joy, peace, and goodness.
Joy (Galatians 5:22-24). This work of the Holy Spirit in believers is to be continued until they are in this
The world they live in continues and gradually replaces them and their Master Jesus.
Christ is similar to you, in the eyes of God, we are all like His only begotten Son.
We will be perfect. But only when we are perfect like Christ will we go to heaven (1 John 1:1).
(2:3) The Holy Spirit helps us and teaches us in many other ways.
How to pray and how to guide and strengthen us in our service to Christ.
(Romans 8:26, 27; Acts 13:2-4; 16:6, 7)
What I understand from this truth is that the Holy Spirit dwells in believers in the
It is God Himself who dwells in them. What a precious and incomparable nation it is!
May the great and holy God dwell in man with His Holy Spirit! In fact, this is the greatest
It is a gift that God could bestow upon mankind, which is forgiveness.

61 What is Christianity?
To man himself. To whom has this gift been given? As we know, in
In times past, God gave His Holy Spirit to prophets and saints. But when
That God sent his Son to be the Savior of the world, and that he would give his Spirit for all people.
He gave it to those who believe in Jesus Christ. Jesus said, "If you believe in him,
You are wicked, you know that good things must be given first, how much more so will your heavenly Father give you?
"He will give the Holy Spirit to everyone who asks him." (Luke 13:11) Amen.
And everyone at any time has believed in Christ and accepted Him as their Lord.
Let him surrender and ask God to give him the Holy Spirit. God will surely do this.
He will do it. Just as you ask him every day for your daily bread.
Let us also show that in order to continue our spiritual life, we must constantly ask Him to help us.
Fill your spirit. Jesus Christ said: "Ask, and you will find" (Luke 9:11).

– 11. What is the meaning of the Trinity?
Dear friend, now we come to the topic you were interested in, when U
I said Christians believe in one God, you ask. I know you've heard that.
Christians worship three gods: God, Jesus, and his mother Mary, and these three make up the "Trinity."
As I explained before, if Christians were to replace every creature of God with
Those who worship Allah or worship Him as much as He does have committed the greatest sin. Mary, the Virgin Mary
He was a very holy person, but he never

What is the meaning of the Trinity? 62
It should not be considered a matter of praise that belongs only to God. Of course, it is true that
Christians praise Jesus Christ, but we do not praise him because
He was a holy prophet, but because he was the Word of God and the Son of God from eternity, and
God is absolutely one. He was not a person whom we humans elevated to the level of God and made into something like Him.
We have not equated him with the true God, but in fact he has been one with God from eternity and is
It became the reason for man to save sinful man and turn him towards God. Therefore
He is worthy of praise because He is truly God.
Furthermore, we have already explained that the Holy Spirit is not one of God's creatures.
Rather, he is one with God and is God Himself. The Holy Spirit performs the same function in human life.
He does what only God can do and for that reason is worthy of praise, as
The son is worthy of praise and worship. So what is the result? Is this the intention?
Is it true that there are three Gods, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit? Of course, that is the purpose.
No. We repeat again, God is the one true God and will always be the one. But
From eternity there has been one God, consisting of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. The Father, who is visible to our eyes,
Humanity is never seen as the source and fountain of the divine, the only one in human history, the Son,
The Father made the invisible fully manifest. The Holy Spirit was given by the Father and the Son.
He carried out God's will among the people. So, dear friend, be assured that
Christians worship one God, who is the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Jesus
He pointed to this unity in the Trinity and commanded his apostles to go everywhere.
And make disciples of all people, and call them believers in the name of the Father and of the Son.

63 What is Christianity?
And the Holy Spirit will baptize (Matthew 19:28). Later I will explain what baptism is.

–12 What is the church?
You may have heard that people are destroying buildings where Christians worship.
They call it a church. Although people often think of the building as a church, the real meaning is
A "church" is not a building, but a community of believers who worship in that building.
The word "church" refers to the community of Christian believers in a particular place and
This word is also for all believers – both those who are still in this world and those who are to come.
Those who are with Christ in heaven – used.
In ancient times, God chose the children of Israel to be a chosen people.
He gave them His laws through Moses and gave them the land of Palestine.
He gave them and sent them prophets to teach them and point to the coming of the promised Messiah.
They spoke to him. When Jesus, the promised Messiah, came at the appointed time among the
Israel appeared, some of the people believed in him, but most of them disbelieved.
They refused. Then God created a new nation for Himself from those who believed in Christ.
formed what was called the Church of Christ. At first, only the Israelites were God's chosen people.
They were considered, but now all men and women of different races and nations are on the
Those who believe in Christ on earth are considered the new people of God.

What is the church? 64
The way to enter the community of Israel was through the ceremony of circumcision, which God had ordained for Abraham and all his descendants.
He ordained his male line. But the way to enter the church of Christ, which is the new people of God, is through the
The term "baptism" and for the same reason, circumcision no longer have religious significance.
Christ's command applies to those who have repented and put their faith in Christ, and
It is a sign of membership in God's spiritual family. Baptism itself does not save anyone.
It does not, because sinners are saved only through faith in Christ. Baptism is a sign and symbol.
It is a cleansing from sin and the beginning of a new life in Christ. In some churches,
It is customary for water to be sprinkled or poured on the heads of those being baptized, and in churches
Others immerse people completely in water. Baptism is only possible once for each person.
It is done.
In the New Testament, the church is called the "body of Christ." Christ is the head of the church.
And all the members of the body from every race and language and color are one in him. Therefore, the church
It is one as Christ is one. The church is also holy because it is holy to God.
It belongs. However, when we look at the state of the church in the world today, we see that
It is often divided and sometimes there is evil in it. Why is that?
The first point we should pay attention to is that there are many things in the church that
They were not born again by the Holy Spirit and for that reason they were not truly Christians.
The Bible says that anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to Him (Romans 9:8).
Furthermore, we must keep in mind that all church members are like sick people.
Who have come to your hospital to be healed. They have placed themselves in the hands of the great physician, that is,
They have entrusted Jesus Christ and he has gradually healed them.

65 What is Christianity?
Missing forgives and heals from the disease of sin. Also, the situation of Christians in this
They live in the world, they are not completely free from the consequences of sin, and for that reason we all need
To confess our sins and repent of them. All human beings are sinners, but
The difference between Christians and others is that true Christians know themselves.
The doctor sent by God will deliver and his medicines will be used.
They obey his orders when others do not.
While all true believers in Christ are one, you may know that
There are various Christian sects in the world. The two sects that are the largest of all are:
They are Catholic and Protestant, and these two major sects have different branches.
But the Bible of all these Christians is one. They all believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.
He is the Son of God and they believe that he died on the cross and rose again and is the only salvation.
God is the giver and the giver. Although Christians disagree on some issues and even topics,
They have fundamental differences of opinion, but most are interested in and willing to unite and agree.
May they be united in love and faith, according to Christ's desire.
What is the purpose of the church? One of the purposes of the church is to empower believers.
May they grow in the knowledge of God, in faith and in love, and also with other believers.
Have friendship and fellowship. It is essential that every believer follow Christ's commandments in
Baptism and membership in his church represent obedience. Every Christian is to other Christians.
It needs the same things as every organ in the human body needs other organs.

What is a church? 66
No believer should ever deprive himself of the fellowship and solidarity of other believers.
Make a separate one in the church.
Furthermore, Christ has commissioned the church to carry out His work in this world.
And when Jesus Christ lived as a man in this world, he brought the Word of God to the world.
He preached to the people, healed the sick, comforted the sorrowful, and
He saved sinners. Before he ascended to heaven, Christ spoke to his followers
He himself formulated a plan to bring the gospel of salvation to all the people of the world. The most important work and
The duty of all Christians in all countries of the world is to bring the message of Christ to all people.
To reach the world and invite them to believe in Him. Christians should also
Show the love of Christ to all races and religions by healing the sick and teaching.
Jesus showed the ignorant, feeding the hungry, and preaching salvation to the captives of sin.
Christ spent his life serving people, and the members of his church should also
Take his example.
Just as every flock of sheep needs a shepherd, every group of believers needs a shepherd.
It also needs leaders to educate, guide, and encourage them.
They represent and, when necessary, rebuke and punish those who have deviated.
When God established the church, He provided such leaders for His children in the church.
Jesus Christ chose twelve people to be his apostles and preached his message to them.
They will reach the world and build His church. Then, as is noted in the New Testament,
We do, God also chose others to be shepherds, teachers, evangelists, and servants in the church.
And the leader and

67 What is Christianity?
They are overseers. All of these spiritual servants of Christ in the church today fulfill their duties.
They are showing.

– 13 What are the religious duties and ceremonies of Christians?
Because Christian worship differs in several ways from that of followers of other religions,
It is sometimes mistakenly thought that Christians do not have religious obligations. At the same time,
I would like to make it perfectly clear that the purpose of Christian worship is to learn about salvation and
It is not the forgiveness of sins. As I explained before, we cannot earn salvation by works.
What we do is not to bring righteousness, but this gift is freely given to us by God.
It is possible if we believe in Christ. Therefore, we worship God, not idols.
To earn salvation, but to express love and gratitude to God for free salvation.
Which is given to the believer. Let me briefly explain Christian worship:
– 1 prayer
Jesus did not teach his followers prayers that they were required to say every day.
Specific questions at a specific time while focusing on a specific topic.
They have been made to repeat these prayers in Hebrew or Greek. On the contrary, they were told
Just as children go to their father whenever and wherever they wish,
And they speak to him as if they were children, and they go out to God in their native language.
They speak to him themselves. The way they pray is not very important, but this is important.
Who shall worship God in sincerity, and with all our mind and heart? (Matthew 15:5-6)
John 23:4-24 Christians, when they are with other believers in the church building,
They gather, pray, and also spend time with their families at home or when

What are the religious duties and ceremonies of Christians? 68
They are busy with their daily work, praying in silence. Many Christians are accustomed to
They have to read a portion of the Bible individually every day and pray. They are in
Their prayers thank God for His abundant blessings, confess their sins, and
They ask for forgiveness and pray for the healing of the sick and the salvation of the believers. They also
They pray for their rulers and authorities and for world peace. Jesus said that we
We should always pray (Luke 1:18) because Jesus Christ rose from the dead on Sunday.
Sunday is a holy day for Christians. Worship in churches is usually
It takes place on Sunday, but there are also worship services on other days.
In church worship services, the Bible was read and spiritual songs were sung.
The pastor or priest of the church preaches. If you are interested, you can attend Christian worship services.
Make sure one of your Christian friends can introduce you to their church.
Win.
– 2 days
Jesus Christ set aside special days or times for his followers.
He did not prescribe fasting, and for this reason fasting is optional for his followers. However
He told his followers that whenever they fast, they should do so only to please God.
They are like the dreamers who fast so that people will praise and glorify them.
(Matthew 18:16-18) Some Christians on Friday, the day Jesus was crucified.
Some also refuse to be crucified during the four days before Christ's resurrection.
They abstain from eating certain foods. In this regard, there are customs and traditions in the Bible.
Instructional

69 What is Christianity?
It was not found, but was only ordered to refrain from doing or saying all the things that
Let us abstain from evil. It is very appropriate to mention the words of Christ in this regard.
We believe that the formula of all food is pure and halal, and that it is something that purifies a person.
It is not the food that goes into the mouth, but the cause of impurity and wickedness that comes from the heart.
It is issued and causes adultery, theft, murder, envy, pride, and the like.
                                                                            Mark (23 _ 18: 7
                                                                                 - 3 Sadaqah and charity
Jesus did not specify how much and what percentage of income and assets to give.
Christians should be given for the work of God and to help the poor. However, he taught that all
Our wealth belongs to God and we should spend our wealth, whether small or large, according to His guidance.
God has used us. Therefore, Christians, from a legal perspective, are
We offer gifts to God from what has been entrusted to them, willingly and willingly.
They help to support the pastors, carry out church affairs, and help the poor and the sick.
It is used to bring the gospel of salvation in Christ to those who have not heard it. Christ
He said that his followers should give generously to please God, and for this reason
Many Christians give a tenth of their income to God, but not to this one.
The meaning is that they will be respected and praised by people (Matthew 6:1-4).
– 4 visits
Jesus never commanded his followers to go to the holy place.
Go on pilgrimage, because God is present everywhere and everyone

What are the religious duties and ceremonies of Christians? 70
He can worship him anywhere. Some Christians are interested in Palestine.
They want to go and see the land where Jesus lived, but going there is a
There is no religious reward. It is impossible for us to go to the tomb of Christ,
Let us respect his body because his tomb is empty and he is alive.
                                                                                     - 5 Eids
Jesus did not command his followers to observe specific fasts as feasts.
However, Christians usually observe at least three important feasts: the first is the
The feast or celebration of the birth of Christ. Most Christians celebrate the birth of Christ on December 25th.
They celebrate every year, but some people observe this holiday on January 6th, but the date
The exact date of Jesus' birth is not known. The second holiday is called the Feast of the Resurrection, which is the day on which
Christians celebrate and rejoice on the occasion of Christ's victory over death and resurrection.
The date of Christ's resurrection, because it is determined by the lunar calendar, changes every year.
It is always celebrated in the months of March and April. The third festival is the festival of
Pentecost, which coincides with the seventh week after the Feast of the Resurrection and Memorial Day, is a day of
The Holy Spirit descended on the disciples of Christ. These are three of the religious holidays of Christians.
New Year's Day or January 1st is a national holiday, not a Christian one.
– 6 sacred rites
Jesus established two holy ordinances that must be observed in His church.
The first is baptism, which I explained earlier. This rite is performed when people are accepted into the
Church membership was done (refer to Chapter Twelve). The second is the
Holy Communion or the Lord's Supper.

71 What is Christianity?
On the night before His crucifixion, Jesus Christ gave bread to His disciples and said to them, "Take, eat, and drink."
"This is my body." He also gave them the cup of wine, saying, "This is my blood."
Jesus made bread and wine a symbol of his body and blood and commanded his followers to
He said that this sacred rite should be performed in his memory. Now it is performed in all churches throughout the world.
This command of Christ is carried out in the world. Christians gather in places of worship every now and then.
They gathered themselves together and each ate a piece of bread and drank a little of the grape juice, and
They remember that Christ died for them and that His power is revealed in their hearts through faith.
Christians gain many spiritual blessings from this holy religion.
1 Corinthians 11:23-30
– 7 marriages
Jesus Christ's teaching about marriage is that only one man and one woman
They must be united by marriage and must love and respect each other until the end of their lives.
Be faithful to each other. Jesus said, "What God has joined together, let no man separate."
Therefore, divorce is forbidden for any reason other than fornication (Matthew 12:19-21 and Mark 12:1-2).
(12:2-10) The apostle Paul says that the love between a husband and wife should be like a loving bond.
May there be peace between Christ and his people (Ephesians 5:21-33).

– What are the 14 moral teachings of Christianity?
In the Old Testament, we find many laws that God gave to His people Israel.
He gave it. In the "Ten Commandments," found in the book of Exodus, chapter twenty. Missing

What are the moral teachings of Christianity? 72
It is possible, God commanded us to respect our parents and to forbid murder, adultery, and theft.
Lying and coveting of other people's property are prohibited. In addition to the rules and moral laws.
He also gave many other commands, one of which was: "Treat your neighbor as yourself."
"Love one another" (Leviticus 18:19). Jesus did not change any of God's laws, but
He completed these laws by explaining their original purpose.
For example, Jesus said that if a man looks at a woman other than his wife lustfully,
Look, she has committed the sin of adultery. The Old Testament laws condemned a person for committing adultery.
But Jesus destroyed the lustful thoughts that come from the heart and are the basis of evil deeds.
He commanded us to be truthful in speech and to abstain from all kinds of oaths.
He forbade eating because he believed that every word of human speech should be pure.
And in that case there is no need for an oath. He said to his followers that not only
They must love one another, but also their enemies and pray for those who persecute them.
He himself prayed for good. He forbade drunkenness and any immoral act. He said:
That God's children must be perfect, just as their heavenly Father is perfect.
No higher goal can be found than this (Matthew 5:17-47).
Jesus also gave a command for life that was to be followed in all lands and in
All courses are doable and that is "what you want people to do to you".
"Do to them likewise, for this is the Law and the Prophets" (Matthew 12:7).
This precious teaching has been called the "Golden Rule." This perfect and fundamental teaching is not only
It forbids wrongdoing towards others, but rather encourages us to do all good.

73 What is Christianity?
We do to others what we would like them to do to us. It is very important to note that
The Bible contains detailed instructions on food, clothing, and other matters that are important to us throughout our lives.
It is not subject to change and transformation over time, but rather it contains a principle that is applicable in any situation.
It is implemented and therefore permanent.
All of Jesus' teachings can be summed up in the word love. Love
Jesus Christ was perfect love, and he commanded his disciples to love one another.
(John 12:15) Christians
We know very well that we do not have this Christian love within ourselves, but when we
We learn how Christ loved us and gave his life for us, and we learn from him and his example.
That we should love one another (1 John 4:19). The Spirit of Christ is the Spirit of love, and
When Christ puts His Spirit in us, then we can become all people, even
Love your enemies, as Christ did (Romans 5:5-6). (John 12:17-21)
Love should not only remain in our hearts, but we must show it in our actions. John the Apostle
It says that if someone is able to help his poor brother, but does not do so out of
He who is negligent, the love of God is not in him.
Below is a portion of the greatest definition ever written about love, and it resonates with me.
The apostle Paul is quoted as saying:
"If I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and have perfect faith,
"If I have enough to move mountains, but I do not have love, I will not benefit at all."
"Love is kind and gentle. Love does not envy. Love is not proud and arrogant."
He does not have any bad habits, does not seek his own benefit, does not get angry, and

What is the Christian belief about the future? 74
It does not doubt, it does not rejoice in unrighteousness, but rejoices in the truth, and in all things it is true.
It waits for everything and believes everything, it is always hopeful and everything is possible.
It endures. Love never fails...
"And now these three remain: faith, hope, and love; but the greatest of these is
This is love” (1 Corinthians 13).
The love of God in relationship with people is not only a word of speech but also a word of healing.
The sick, feeding the hungry, and giving His life on the cross to save sinners.
It was expressed. It is the love of Christ that makes his followers interested in hospitals.
Hospitals for the sick, orphanages for orphans, and schools for children.
Other institutions should be established to serve people of all races and religions around the world.
Jesus wanted to be a special sign of his love for his disciples). (35:13)
Christians must admit with complete shame that our love is often lacking.
It has been imperfect, but all true Christians desire to be like their Master in loving others.
Represent.

-15. What is the Christian belief about the future?
As I stated at the beginning of this letter, Christians believe in Almighty God.
They believe that they have a role to play in this world, and that role will certainly be fulfilled.
When man rebelled against God and became a sinner, God sent his Son to save him.
John Farsutad) John. (16-19: 3 Those who believe in him will be saved and
Those who reject Him will be condemned. In the end, God will destroy all His enemies.

75 What is Christianity?
He will make you submissive and establish His eternal kingdom, in which there will be no wickedness.
It will not exist, it will not exist. There are many prophecies in the Bible about
It would be difficult to find out about the future, but God has not seen fit to provide everything for us.
Make it perfectly clear and obvious. Therefore, Christians often interpret these prophecies in various ways.
They interpret and interpret.
Now, the pastor explained those future events that are accepted by most Christians.
:
                                                                      - 1 The return of Jesus Christ
Before ascending to heaven, Christ made a promise to his disciples.
He assured them that he would return to them soon, and that Christians would await his return.
They are. The first coming of Jesus to earth was for the salvation of mankind, but his return
His second will be for the judgment and establishment of the complete kingdom of God. When the disciples
Jesus was asked when he would return. He replied, "At that time."
Only God knows his return. He insisted on them always being ready,
Because he will come when people are not expecting him. He told them that he would come in glory.
The angels will come and his appearance will be seen by everyone like lightning from heaven.
He will protect his disciples from false Christs and false prophets who will deceive people.
He came to warn us. We know very well that there have been many liars in the past 1900 years.
They have come, but intelligent and wise Christians have never been deceived by them, because Christ is
He made it clear to them that whoever says, "The Messiah has come and is in such and such a place,"
That person

What is the Christian belief about the future? 76
The Christ is false. When the true Christ comes from heaven, all the people of the world will recognize him.
They will know immediately and will not need to hear this news from others.
When Christ ascended to heaven, the angels told his disciples that he
They looked at him and said, "This Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, will come again."
"He came in the same way as you saw him go into heaven" (Acts 11:1).
Therefore, Jesus, in his second coming, will appear as a child born of a human mother.
He will not come into the world to remain alive again. He will first live on earth and die. Because
The Holy Bible says that Jesus is the only one who redeems us for our sins and others.
It will not happen, because death has no more power over him) (Romans). (9:6)
It is a being that has not returned since its ascension to heaven.
When Jesus Christ rose from the dead, his physical body was
A spirit that death could not transform, so he was able to remain
Angels of heaven appeared and disappeared. He, having a spiritual body, is now in heaven.
Sut and we believe that the mountain, together with us, will be spiritual and will appear again to the people.
It will be. Because Christians are always involved in predicting the time and place of Christ's return.
They have made mistakes, it is good that we avoid repeating this mistake. We should all
We should live a life of service and serve our God in the way that He always has.
Let us be ready to welcome him when he returns (Matthew 24:25).
What will Christ do when he returns? Answer

77 What is Christianity?
This question is not entirely clear in the Bible. Some Christians believe that
Christ will destroy all the wickedness of the world and establish God's kingdom on earth.
He said, and he will be busy reigning. All people will obey him, and a time of peace and
True justice will prevail. Life on earth will be transformed.
God's plan was and was planned before the rebellion of man against God. Some of the
Christians imagine that Christ's reign is like the reign of earthly kings in this world.
He will not be, but will reign as a spiritual king in the eternal kingdom of God.
Kard. When he comes, his work will undoubtedly surpass our imaginations.
It is not necessary to know all these secrets. But it is necessary to give all of ourselves to
Let's prepare for his return.
– 2 General Resurrection
Jesus said, "The hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will come out."
They will hear his (Christ's) voice and come out, everyone who has done good deeds for
"The resurrection of life, and the resurrection of judgment, and they that have done evil" (John 27:5-6). (28b)
These statements are Jesus Christ's claim that he himself will raise all the dead.
Just as he brought some dead people back to life when he lived in Palestine.
When the dead are raised, what kind of body will they have? The apostle Paul says that
The physical bodies of believers will be replaced on the Day of Resurrection, just like a seed.
When it is sown in the ground, it dies and becomes a new plant (1 Corinthians 15:11).
Chapter 15: Jesus' Answer to Those Who Asked Him About the Life to Come

What is the Christian belief about the future? 78
The question was asked, "In the future, there will be no marriages, but...
Believers will be like the angels of God (Matthew 22:30).
                                                                              - 3 final judgement
Christ will not only raise the dead, but will judge all people.
He said that all nations would be gathered before Him, and He would separate them from one another.
He will separate them as a shepherd separates his sheep from the goats.
Those who love the sick and needy will say, "Come, O blessing."
You who have been found by the Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
"And to those who have neglected to love others, He will say, "Get away from Me."
"Into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels." These are the punishments
They will enter eternal punishment, but the righteous will enter eternal life (Matthew 25:25).
(31-46) Yes, God will judge all mankind through his Son, Jesus Christ.
May all of us, of every nation and religion, one day stand before the just judgment seat of Christ.
We will stand up for what we have done during our lifetime in this world.
We will be judged (John 22:5; Acts 31:17; 2 Corinthians 10:5). Of course, the judge
He is just and will judge with justice and mercy.
Is there anyone who does not fear this terrible Day of Judgment? Yes.
Those who have true faith in Christ the Savior will not fear Christ the Judge.
For he said, "Amen, amen, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes in him who sent me,
He who believes has eternal life and

79 What is Christianity?
"You are not condemned, but have passed from death to life" (John 5:23). Yes,
Although believers in Christ are not sinless, they will be accepted by God because of their faith.
They know that Christ died for them. In the righteous judgment of Christ, believers in Christ will be judged.
They will be rewarded for their faithfulness (Matthew 14:25-30 and 1 Corinthians 12:3).
– .( 15)
What will be the fate of those who have refused to believe in Christ?
They will be condemned and punished because Christ said, "Whoever does not believe now will be condemned."
He is condemned because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And this is the judgment:
The light has come into the world, and people loved evil more than the light, because of the evil they did.
"He is evil" (John 18:3-19). Ananias rejects the Son of God and rejects God.
And in fact, there is no greater sin than this. My dear friend, now you are well.
You can understand why we Christians are so eager to see all people everywhere know Christ.
They must know and believe in him, for if they reject him, God will also reject them.
Show
-4 Heaven and Hell
From what has been said so far, the principles of Christian beliefs regarding life
The future is bright. Those who have been accepted by Christ will be present with God and
They will live with Him forever in love and joy. Jesus said, "In the Father's house."
I have many homes... When I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you.
"I will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also" (John 2:14-3).
.
In the last part of the Bible, the apostle John describes the glory of life in the presence of God.
God describes it this way: "And I saw a new heaven and a new earth."

What is the Christian belief about the future? 80
New...I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, "Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and with
He will dwell in them, and they will be his people...God will wipe away every tear from our eyes.
They will be clean and will die no more, and there will be no more mourning, crying, or pain.
...and whoever overcomes will inherit everything, and God will be with him.
He will be my son." (Revelation 1:21-7) This is the paradise that I have prepared for you.
The children of God have been prepared. Its glory and greatness will be beyond our imagination, because the book
The Holy Scripture says: "Things that eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the mind of man."
"What God has prepared for those who love Him" (1 Corinthians 2:1)
(9:)
What will be the destiny of the children of God's obedient children? God
He says, "But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and fornicators, and sorcerers, and idolaters,
The idolaters and all their liars will be thrown into the lake burning with fire and brimstone.
"will be" (Revelation 8:21). Hell is complete separation from the light and love of God.
It is, and no language can adequately describe its horror.
All people should seek eternal life instead of eternal punishment.
                                                                                  - 5 death of believers
Are Christians afraid of death? No, they are not afraid of death.
For Christ promised that when they die, they will be with him (2 Corinthians 8:5).
Apostle Paul, when he is likely to be executed in Rome, as you drink: "I want to"
"I would rather depart and be with Christ, for that is far better." (Philippians 1:23)
People are surprised to see Christians at the funerals of their loved ones.

81 What is Christianity?
Happy songs are good. The reason for this is that we know that they are
They are not really dead. They have gone to Christ, and for that reason, while they are separated from Him, they are still alive.
We grieve and we cry because we know they are with Christ. We are happy.
End
Dear friend, I must now conclude my long letter. I hope
I was able to give satisfactory answers to some of your questions. Thank you.
You still have other questions that I haven't answered. For example, you might want to know:
Do new scientific discoveries conflict with the Christian faith or not? Absolutely not.
No. God is the source of all truth, whether these truths are in the Bible or in
Nature. There is no difference or contradiction between true knowledge and true faith.
Some modern scientists have been sincere believers in Christ. Scientists, you said.
The more we explore this vast world, the better we will be able to achieve greatness.
Let us understand the wisdom and power of God, who is the creator and preserver of all these things.
Or maybe you, like many people, are suffering from the terrible problems of war and poverty and
You suffer greatly from injustice in the world and wonder why God allows this evil.
It is happening in the world. The answer that the Bible gives us is that all of this
Evil and wickedness are created by sinful mankind, not by a just and holy God.
God is judging and punishing people for their sins even now.
Finally, as noted above, God will judge each person according to his deeds.
The world is governed under God's supervision.

Ending 82
And although we cannot fully understand why He allows all this evil to exist in the world,
But we know that He will eventually cast Satan into hell and establish the Holy Kingdom.
And he will establish his eternity.
Dear friend, my most serious request to you is that the Holy Book
Study it carefully and pray that God will guide you in understanding its teachings.
And you, through faith in Jesus Christ, have been saved, and you have become children of God. Then I hope
Who will serve God and people throughout his life in this world, and
Then you will always live with Christ in your Heavenly Father's house.

Your close friend.

