Story 29
29 stories
Selected
Selected
Holy
The Bible from
From the book
Author
Author
Ora Miller
    Miller Ora

29 stories
Selected
From the Bible


Author
Ora Miller
Designer
Gloria Ustimma

                       Gleam Publications, ©1994

                              Revised edition ©2006

                                         Farsi ©2013



Copyright reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced under any
No terms and conditions may be given, electronically or in any other form.
No other system may be used without the written permission of the publisher.
except for a short quotation from a specific and necessary chapter.
For review.

Old Testament
Table of contents

4 Amazing Creations of God
6 Adam and Eve
8 The First Sin
10 Noah, builder of the ark
12 Abram and Lot
14 Sacrifice of Isaac
16 Dreams with Special Messages
18 Joseph Interprets Pharaoh’s Dreams
20 Joseph's Brothers Go to Egypt
22 Moses in the Nile River
24 burning bushes
26 Passover
28 The Red Sea opens.
30 Elijah

God's amazing creation
At the beginning
The Bible begins with God. God created the beautiful heavens above and the earth below.
He created the earth for us to live on. There was a time when everything was dark,
It was dark. There were no birds, no animals, not even the sound of a child's laughter.
It was arriving.
Then God said, “Let there be light,” and suddenly there was light. God is the light.
He separated the light from the darkness and called them "day" and "night." And this happened in the same
It happened on the first day.
On the second day, God began to create a beautiful world. He separated the waters from the air.
The building and the blue sky appeared.
On the third day, God gathered the waters into the oceans, streams, and rivers, and made the dry land dry.
He appeared. He covered the plains, the hills, and the mountains with meadows, flowers, vineyards, and trees.
Covered. Olives, apples, cherries, peaches, and stone fruits, and all kinds of shrubs grew.
On the fourth day, God placed a bright, round object in the sky, and that object was the sun.
It was. At night, the bright moon appeared and the sky was dotted with many stars.
On the fifth day, there was noise everywhere. What did God create on this day? He created birds.
He created the birds to fly in the sky and the fish to swim in the waters. They are in
Different sizes, shapes, and colors were created. Whales, goldfish,
Sparrows, geese, ostriches were just a few of the many creatures that
God had created.
On the sixth day, cattle, reptiles, and other animals were seen. The Lord of the cattle,
Horses, sheep, dogs and cats, lions, leopards, bears and rabbits.
This was a wonderful birthday gift for the first human, Adam, whom God created.
On the same day He created, do you know the name of the first human being? In the next story about
He will sing.
On the seventh day, God rested. He called it a holy day, because he
He had completed all his good work.
Genesis Chapter 1 and Chapter 2, verses 1-3

4

God created a wonderful world.

Parents: It is by faith that we understand that the worlds were formed by the Word of God.
Hebrews Chapter 11 Verse 3

Children -1: Who created all living things?
-2- Can you name some beautiful things that God created?
-3- In how many days did God create the world?


5

Adam and Eve
The first human and the mother of all living things
On the sixth day of creation, God's creation was truly beautiful. The fields were green, the flowers were blooming,
Birds and animals were busy in the forests.
But there were no people, no houses, no farms, no cities on the ground. No children.
He didn't play under the trees. The world was ready for men and women to enjoy.
God said, “Let us make man in our image. He will have a soul and will rule over all things.”
The world will dominate."
Then God created man from the dust of the ground. He breathed into him the breath of life, and man became
He became a living man. And God called this first man Adam.
God created a beautiful garden in Eden for Adam to live in, with a river flowing with clear water.
It flowed through this garden. Adam's duty was to take care of and maintain this garden. Then
God brought the animals to Adam so that he could name them as he pleased. And Adam realized
It turned out that there were two types of each animal.
But in this perfect and beautiful garden, man had no companion. God said, "It is not good."
"The man will be alone. I will create someone to be with him and help him."
God caused Adam to fall into a deep sleep, and took a rib from his side. From that rib
He created a woman, and Adam named her Eve. Adam and Eve loved each other.
And they lived happily in this beautiful garden that God had given them to live in.
They were doing it.
Genesis Chapter 1 Verse 26 and Chapter 2




6

Adam and Eve in the beautiful Garden of Eden.

Parents: Thank you for creating me so wonderfully.
Psalms Chapter 139 Verse 14

Children -1: Who created Adam and Eve?
-2-Who named the animals that God created?
-3 In which garden did Adam and Eve live?


7

The first sin
Expulsion from the Garden of Eden
For a time we do not know, Adam and Eve lived peacefully in the beautiful Garden of Eden.
They lived. They talked to God like a person talking to a friend,
They did everything the Lord told them to do, and they did evil.
They didn't know.
However, Adam and Eve needed to learn to obey God's commands.
God said to Adam and Eve, “You may eat fruit from every tree in the garden except
A tree. If you eat from that tree, you will die.”
Among the animals there was also a snake. Satan, that evil spirit that tempts us to sin.
He tempts. He entered the serpent and tempted the woman to sin.
The serpent said to Eve, “You will not surely die. God knows that if you eat of that fruit,
You will gain wisdom and will have the ability to distinguish between good and evil.
Eve listened to the serpent. She looked at the fruit of the tree and thought, "How delicious!"
It could be, and how wonderful it would be if this fruit also gave him wisdom. So
Disregarding God's command, she ate the fruit of that tree and gave some to Adam, and he
He also ate fruit from it.
That evening, when Adam and Eve heard the voice of God, they went to God's presence as always.
They did not go, but hid themselves in fear.
Because of their disobedience, God said to Eve, “You will suffer pain and suffering.”
And God said to Adam, “Because you have spoken evil of me,
You listened to your wife and did the wrong thing she told you to do, and you did the wrong thing all the time.
"You will spend your life in pain, hardship, and sweat, amidst thorns and thorns."
God also cursed the serpent.
Adam and Eve were no longer allowed to live in that beautiful garden. God expelled them from the garden.
He drove out Eden and placed an angel with a flaming sword at the entrance to the garden.
Genesis Chapter 3




8

Adam and Eve are expelled from the Garden of Eden for disobedience.

Parents: Just as many became sinners because of Adam's disobedience, so too, because of
Many were made righteous through the obedience of Christ. Romans 5:19

Children -1: Who tempted Eve?
-2 Why did Adam and Eve hide themselves from God?
-3-Who drove Adam and Eve out of the Garden of Eden?


9

Noah, the builder of Noah's Ark
The first ship voyage in world history
Over time, humans have increased on Earth. It is unfortunate that
It must be said that they had become very cruel. God decided to destroy mankind by sending
Floods and storms appeared.
When God looked down from heaven on the earth, he saw a good man named Noah.
Noah was a friend of God, and God saved him from the flood that was about to come upon him.
God commanded Noah to build a large ark, and
He also gave him complete instructions for building the ship.
There is no doubt that wicked people laughed and sneered at Noah when he saw the great ark.
He would have built it where there was no water to float it. But Noah
Obeying God's command, he continued to build the ark. He believed in God's word.
He was also preaching to the people about the coming of God's Day of Judgment.
Finally, more than a hundred years later, the ark was built. God gave Noah and his family eight
He told them to enter the ark. God arranged for a pair of all the birds,
Reptiles and all kinds of animals enter the ark to keep their descendants alive. When
They all entered safely. God closed the door of the ark. After seven days of rain,
The rain began and continued for forty days and nights. The rain was like
Floods poured down from the sky and covered the entire earth, leaving no dry land or
Or there were no living creatures on Earth.
Noah's family and their ark were floating on the waters at a great height above the earth.
After many days, the waters gradually began to subside and Noah's ark rested on the earth.
It descended from the mountains of Ararat. One day Noah opened the window of the ark and sent out a dove.
He sent it out. After a while, the dove returned to the ship because it had not been able to land.
A week later, Noah sent out the dove again. This time the dove
It returned with a leaf in its beak. By now the waters must have come down to the base of the trees!
The next time Noah sent out the dove, it did not return. Then Noah knew that
The ground must be dry.
God told Noah and his family to leave the ark. Noah went out to save himself and his family.
His family was very grateful and therefore built an altar to worship God.
Then God created a beautiful rainbow in the sky. God said to Noah,
This is a sign that he will never again destroy the world with a flood.
Genesis chapters 6, 7, 8 and chapter 9 verses 1-18

10

Noah and his family thank God for saving their lives.

Parents: For you, O God, hate wickedness, and sinners will not enter your presence.
Psalms Chapter 5 Verse 4

Children -1: Who ordered Noah to build the ark?
-2. What else was on the ark besides Noah and his family?
-3 Why did God create a rainbow in the sky?


11

Abram and Lot
The destruction of Sodom
The families of Noah's children gradually grew and multiplied until they encompassed the entire world.
But soon their thoughts and actions also became wicked. The number of people who worshipped stone idols increased day by day.
And they worshipped wood. They did not seek the true God. So God was in
Among them he found a man who was different from the others. This man was Abram. He always prayed.
He was a slave to the true and living God and was trying to do God's will. The Lord said, "Abram,
"I want you to get away from this place of corruption and I will show you where to go."
Even though Abram did not know God's will, he obeyed God. Abram married his wife Sarah.
And he took their animals and left his home in Haran, and his nephew Lot also went to
He followed Abram with his animals. They eventually reached the land of Canaan, which God had promised them.
They had reached the place where Abram had been told about it. They had pitched their tents in Canaan and were living a peaceful life.
They just started their own business. But they soon ran into problems. There wasn't enough for everyone.
There was no room for the animals. Abram and Lot had to separate. So Abram said to Lot, “You
"Decide whether to leave here or to stay." Lot looked toward Sodom and saw that
The surrounding lands were very beautiful and lush, and full of springs of water. Therefore, he was the best
He chose the land and decided to move towards Sodom.
One day three men came to Abram and told him that God wanted to destroy the city of Sodom because of its wickedness.
Destroy his people. These men were angels from God. One of the greatest sins
The people of Sodom were men marrying men and women marrying women. God wants
One man should marry one woman. But the people of Sodom did not care about God's law. Abram
The salvation of Sodom interceded with God. God agreed that if ten righteous men were found in the city of Sodom,
He will not destroy the city. But even ten people in that city did not love God.
When the angels arrived in the city of Sodom, Lot welcomed them warmly and directed them to
The angels warned Lot that the Lord had destroyed Sodom.
The next morning they said to him, "Hurry up, take your wife and daughters."
"And get out of this city." They quickly got Lot, his wife, and his daughters out of the city, and
They were warned not to look back. Then God rained fire down on Sodom from heaven.
And burned the city. Lot's wife looked back and became a pillar of salt. This story shows us
It shows that our choices in life matter. Lot had selfishly decided to destroy the city.
He chose Sodom for his life, which resulted in the loss of his wife and home.
Abram obeyed God's will in every situation, even if he didn't understand the reason, and because of
That God blessed him.
Genesis chapters 12, 13, 18, and 19

12

Faithful Abram takes his family to Canaan.

Parents: Because of his faith in God, Abraham obeyed His call and went to
The land that God had promised fell to him. Without knowing it, he
He left his city and his country, saying, "Where are you going?" Hebrews 11:8
Children -1: To what land did Abram take his wife and Lot with him?
-2-Who chose the best land for themselves? Where was that land?
-3 Why did God destroy Sodom?
13

Sacrifice of Isaac
God tests Abraham's love.
The Lord came to Abram and said, “To your descendants I will give this land, and to their descendants I will give it.”
And this land shall be theirs for ever. And Abram built an altar unto the Lord.
And he offered a sacrifice thereon and worshipped the Lord.
Another time, God said to Abram, “Can you count the stars?”
"Your descendants will be numerous." Abram believed that God would give him numerous descendants.
He will give, even though he still had no children. Later, God changed Abram's name to
changed it to Abraham, which means father of many nations. He called Abraham and
His wife Sarah promised to give them a son, a nation, and a land. Abraham kept his promise.
He gave him the power to serve God faithfully.
One day, three strangers approached the door of Abraham's tent. At this time, Abraham was
years old and his wife Sarah was ninety years old. These strange men told Abraham that his wife
Sarah will have a son. Sarah heard it and laughed within herself, "How is this possible?"
"Shall I have a child when I am so old?" But those three men who were angels
They said, "Is anything too difficult or impossible for God?"
Finally, the promised son was born to Abraham and his wife Sarah. They were delighted to have
This little boy was very happy and cheerful.
One day God said to Abram, “Take your son, whom you love, and go up to the mountain of
"Take him to the mountain I will show you, and offer him as a burnt offering." Although the command
God filled Abraham's heart with pain, but he immediately obeyed. Abraham and his son went with him.
Two servants and a donkey set off north. On the third day, Abraham and his son were alone.
They went up the mountain. Abraham built an altar there and laid the wood on it, and then tied up his son.
He placed him on the pyre. Then he raised the knife to sacrifice his son.
At that moment the angel of the Lord said, “Abraham, don’t hurt your son! Now I know that you
"You love God more than your son." Those few heavenly words described the joy and happiness of
It brought invincibility to Abraham!
Then Abraham saw a ram whose horns were caught in a bush. Abraham was amazed at the sight.
He was extremely grateful for the ram and the sacrifice of this animal instead of his son.
Genesis Chapter 15 Verses 1-6, Chapters 21-22

14

Abraham is grateful that he does not have to sacrifice his son.

Parents: If you love your son or daughter more than me, you are not worthy of me.
Matthew Chapter 10 Verse 37
Children -1: What is the meaning of the name Ibrahim?
-2 How old was Abraham when the son God promised him was born?
Was he born?
-3 Why do you think God asked Abraham to sacrifice his son?
15

Dreams with special messages
Joseph is sold.
Many years passed. One of Abraham's descendants was a man named Jacob. Jacob
He had twelve sons. Jacob loved Joseph the most among his sons.
He loved Joseph very much, because he was the son of his most beloved wife, Rachel.
Joseph was also a good, considerate, and very loyal son. Jacob was very
Her love for Joseph provided him with a colorful garment, and this garment caused jealousy.
He became his brothers.
One day Joseph said, “Listen, I will tell you a dream I had.
I dreamed that we were tying the sheaves in the field, and suddenly my sheaf stood up and the sheaf
"Your people gathered around my loom and bowed down to it." His brothers mockingly said,
“Do you want to become king and rule over us?”
A few days later, Joseph said, "I dreamed that the sun, the moon, and eleven stars were bowing down to me."
"They were doing it."
Now his brothers hated him more than ever and spoke to him kindly and kindly.
They didn't. Their father was also very thoughtful about what Joseph had said.
One day, Joseph's brothers took their father's flocks to a faraway pasture to graze.
Jacob asked Joseph to go and check on his brothers and see if they were well.
He is good.
When Joseph's brothers saw him, they mocked him and said, "The great dreamer is coming, come."
"Let's kill him." But Reuben, one of the brothers, because his heart yearned for Joseph, the others
He persuaded them not to kill Joseph but to throw him into a nearby well.
And he planned to come later and rescue Joseph and take him to his father.
Then, while the brothers were eating, they saw a camel caravan coming from afar.
He was coming towards them. Suddenly they decided to sell Joseph to this man for twenty pieces of silver.
The merchants sold it, and while Joseph was very sad, he was taken to Egypt with that caravan.
Then the brothers slaughtered a goat and dipped Joseph's coat in the goat's blood and washed it.
They took the bloody garment to their father. When Jacob saw Joseph's bloody garment, he suspected
A wild animal tore and ate Joseph in the middle of the road, and he mourned for his son.
Genesis Chapter 37

16

Joseph is sold for twenty pieces of silver.

Parents: Where there is envy and ambition, there is chaos and every kind of evil.
I also see the other. James Chapter 3 Verse 16

Children -1: Who had a colorful dress?
-2 Why did Joseph's brothers hate him?
-3-What did they do to Joseph?


17

Joseph interprets Pharaoh's dream.
From prison to the king's palace
After many days, Joseph arrived in Egypt. Seeing the Nile River and such a large city,
The crowd was very strange to him.
The merchants sold Joseph as a slave to Potiphar, one of Pharaoh's officers,
Pharaoh was the ruler of Egypt. Joseph was a handsome young man with a pleasant disposition and a kind spirit.
He was a willing servant. His master, Potiphar, soon put him in charge of all the affairs of his house.
At first, Potiphar's wife was very friendly towards Joseph. But when
Joseph refused to sin to please her, but the woman became his enemy and
She lied and falsely accused Joseph. Potiphar believed his wife and ordered
They ordered Joseph to be thrown into a dark prison.
Joseph believed in God, so even in prison he was in a good, kind, and generous spirit.
He lives as a helper. Very soon, for his honesty and integrity, the jailer
He was responsible for the administration of prisoners.
When Joseph was thirty years old, Pharaoh had a dream that troubled him greatly.
One of his servants told him about Joseph.
Pharaoh quickly summoned Joseph and said, "I have heard that you can
"Interpret dreams."
Joseph replied, "It is not in me. God will answer Pharaoh in peace."
Pharaoh said in his dream that seven fat and well-fed cows came up out of the river. Then seven
The skinny cows ate the seven fat cows, but they were still skinny, weak, and pitiful.
They seemed.
Then Joseph said to the king, “The meaning of your dream is that there will be seven years of great abundance.
You will have, and then there will be seven years of famine after them. The king must
"Make someone responsible for gathering provisions during these seven blessed years."
At that time, Pharaoh chose Joseph for this task and made him the second in command of the land.
Egypt and the most powerful ruler over it. God forgot his friend Joseph.
He hadn't.
Genesis Chapters 39 and 41
18

Joseph glorifies God by interpreting Pharaoh's dreams.

Parents: Happy is the one who honors God and obeys Him.
Psalms Chapter 128 Verse 1

Children -1: Why did people love Joseph?
-2-Who explained the meaning of Pharaoh's dream to Joseph?
-3 How did the king reward Joseph?


19

Joseph's brothers go to Egypt
Joseph's dream comes true.
Joseph had become the ruler of Egypt and was carrying out his duties faithfully and with integrity.
The seven blessed years passed quickly, and the years of scarcity and famine began. Even
In the land of Canaan, where Joseph's family lived, food supplies became scarce.
And when Joseph's father Jacob saw that there was grain in the land of Egypt, he sent ten brothers
He sent Joseph to Egypt to buy provisions.
When the brothers arrived in Egypt and stood before Joseph, they did not recognize him. But
Joseph recognized them. When his brothers bowed down to him with their faces to the ground,
There is no doubt that Joseph remembered his dream. Joseph decided to speak to his brothers.
To confront them with violence to see if they are still as mean and hard-hearted as before.
So he spoke to them harshly and as if they were strangers, accusing them of being spies.
He put them in prison for three days, then released them, but kept Simon in prison.
Joseph sent his brothers home and told them not to go back to Egypt.
They will not return unless they bring their younger brother Benjamin with them.
Soon their provisions ran out and they had no choice but to return to Egypt.
This time they took Benjamin with them. Once again, all the brothers stood before Joseph.
They bowed.
Dinner had been prepared for them, and Joseph had arranged their seating so that they could sit down.
The oldest to the youngest were arranged in an orderly manner. The brothers were amazed at
How does this foreign ruler know their age order?
At that moment, Joseph's heart was so filled with emotion that he could not hold back.
He held back his tears, so he quickly went to his private room to cry in private.
After another test of his brothers' honesty, Joseph was convinced that they were no longer wicked and
They are not hard-hearted. Then Joseph sent his servants out of the room and shouted loudly,
He began to cry and said, “I am Joseph your brother, whom you sold into slavery in Egypt.”
"You sold me!" Joseph embraced his brothers with love and tears of joy and said to them,
Kissed.
Joseph sent his brothers home with carts full of provisions. He told them his father and
Bring the whole family to live in Egypt.
Genesis Chapter 42 to Chapter 46

20

Joseph introduces himself to his brothers.

Parents: This is my commandment, that you love one another as I love you.
I love you. John Chapter 15 Verse 12
Children -1: Did Joseph's dream come true?
-2 Why did Joseph act harshly towards his brothers?
3-Did Joseph still love his brothers even though they did not treat him right?
Did he love them?
21

Moses on the Nile River
A basket in the reeds
During Joseph's time, the Egyptians treated the Israelites well. But for a while,
After Joseph's death, a king who did not care about Joseph's work or the Israelites came to power.
Egypt came to power.
The king said, "We must be more severe on these Israelites and make them work for Egypt."
"Let's work harder." He was afraid that the Israelites would become more numerous and powerful. He
He had ordered that all male babies in Israel be killed.
In this very dangerous time, a lovely boy was born into an Israeli family.
For a while his mother hid him from everyone, but it was necessary to come up with a new plan very soon.
He thought to himself, "How can I protect this noisy little child?"
Can he protect this child from the danger of being killed by the Egyptians? He believed.
God will provide a way.
He made a small basket like a boat out of the long reeds that grew around the river.
He made a small basket and covered it with tar so that water would not get into the basket. Then he put the child in the basket.
He placed it by the river among the reeds. He gave it to his twelve-year-old daughter, Maryam.
He told him to watch the basket from a distance.
Soon Pharaoh's daughter and her maids came to the river to bathe, and suddenly the basket
The princess said to her maids, "Go and get the basket from the water for me." When
They took the basket out of the water and removed the lid. The little baby started to cry.
The princess, seeing the child, said, "This is an Israeli child!" And at that moment
He fell in love with the child.
Then Mary, who had been watching from a distance, came closer and asked, "Do you want me to go and have a drink?"
I will find a Hebrew woman to nurse the baby. The princess immediately agreed, and Mary quickly
She went to get her mother. When Mary's mother came, Pharaoh's daughter said to her, "This child is
"Take and nurse him, and I will pay you your wages." And Moses' mother rejoiced.
He took his son home again. And it was in that house that his mother taught Moses all the laws of God.
Learned.
When the child reached the age where he could leave his mother, Pharaoh's daughter took him and
He took him to his palace and named him Moses.
Exodus Chapter 1 and Chapter 2, verses 1-10
22

Pharaoh's daughter finds Moses in a basket.

Parents: It was by faith that Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be the son of Pharaoh's daughter.
He chose to suffer affliction with God's people rather than the fleeting pleasures of sin.
Hebrews Chapter 11 Verses 24 and 25
Children -1: What was the name of the baby that was placed in the basket?
-2 Why did his mother leave him there?
-3Who found this little baby?
23

Burning bush
A voice in the desert
Moses grew up among the Egyptians and learned their wisdom. But in his heart he was a man of the people.
And he loved his people the Israelites, who were now poor and despised slaves.
The people of Israel still served God, while the Egyptians worshipped idols and
They worshipped animals.
Moses felt in his heart that God had called him to help the Israelites.
But when Pharaoh, the ruler of Egypt, heard about Moses' efforts to save the people,
When his father learned of his slavery, he became angry, and when Pharaoh tried to free him,
To kill him, Moses fled from Egypt to another land and became a shepherd there.
One day Moses saw a strange light on the mountainside. A burning bush that was on fire, but
It was not burned. As Moses approached the bush, the angel of the Lord appeared in the midst of him.
Flames of fire appeared. A voice said, "Moses, come forward, take off your shoes,
"For you stand on holy ground."
Then the Lord said to Moses, “Now I will send you to Pharaoh, and you will bring the people
"You will lead me out of Egypt." Moses asked God, "If the people
"They will ask, 'Who is this God? What is his name?' What shall I answer?" God said to Moses.
He replied, “Tell them, ‘I am,’ and the one who lives forever sent me.”
But Moses asked God for a special sign, so God performed two miracles.
He did it for him. First, He told Moses to throw his staff on the ground, and when he did,
Moses threw his staff on the ground, and it turned into a snake. Then, God allowed
God made Moses' hand become leprous. Then God turned the snake into a staff and
Leprosy also healed Moses' hand.
Moses still didn't want to go, because he thought he didn't have good speaking skills. God
He answered him, “Am I not the Lord your Creator, who gave man his mouth? So
"I will teach you what to say." Moses was still hesitant. Then God said to him,
Moses said, "Your brother Aaron can be your spokesman." Finally, Moses surrendered.
God did His will. God sent Aaron to meet Moses and together they went to Egypt.
They gathered the elders of Israel around them and delivered the message of the Lord.
They delivered it to them.
Exodus Chapter 2 Verses 11-25 Chapters 3 and 4
24

God spoke to Moses from a burning bush.

Parents: You will go wherever I send you and do whatever I tell you.
He said, "Do not be afraid of people, for I am with you and will protect you."
Jeremiah Chapter 1 Verses 7 and 8
Children -1: When God approached the burning bush, what did Moses do?
-2 Why did God ask Moses to return to Egypt?
-3 What miracle happened with Moses' rod?
25

Passover
Ultimate freedom
Moses and Aaron spoke to the people of Israel and told them that God wanted to bring them to
He returned to the Promised Land that He had promised to their father Abraham, and then met Pharaoh, the ruler
They went to Egypt. Moses and Aaron told Pharaoh that God wanted the Israelites to leave him in the wilderness.
They worship and, by God's command, they want to take the people of Israel out of Egypt with them.
Pharaoh became very angry and said, "Moses and Aaron, why do you keep the people from their work?"
"Go back to your work immediately and leave the people of Israel alone." Because Pharaoh
God did not agree to Moses and Aaron's request, but sent many flies to Egypt.
People suffered from attacks by flies, frogs, locusts, mosquitoes, and many other disasters. But
Pharaoh still would not allow the Israelites to leave Egypt.
While the Egyptians suffered from these plagues, the people of Israel were safe from all these attacks.
Many of the Egyptians, when they saw this plague, cried out to the God of Israel and to his servant, Moses.
They were afraid. Moses told the people of Israel, “The Lord will bring one more plague on the Egyptians.”
"Bring it, and then they will let us go." All the families packed up their things and
Be ready to leave Egypt together. At midnight the angel of the Lord will go out.
And the firstborn son of every family in Egypt will be killed. But if your families follow exactly according to
"Those who follow my orders will be safe."
Each family had to sacrifice a lamb and put its blood on the doorposts and lintels.
They were to throw stones at their homes. No one was allowed to leave their homes that night, because
This was the Lord's Passover.
That night, a great cry and wailing rose from the homes of the Egyptians. In every home, a boy
Their eldest son was dead. The son of Pharaoh, the ruler of Egypt, also died that night. When Pharaoh saw this,
He understood that this was the work of God. All the people of Egypt were saddened to see their children die in houses full of
They were terrified.
The king sent a messenger to Moses and told them, "Get out of this land quickly."
Take everything you have and leave nothing behind. Pray that God will
"Have mercy on us."
Early in the morning, the Israelites left Egypt after four hundred years of living there. God in
He moved ahead of the great multitude. He went before the people by day in a pillar of cloud, and by night in a pillar of
He guided them with a pillar of fire. This pillar guided them by day and protected them by night.
It gave light.
Exodus Chapters 12 and 13

26

The blood of the lamb protects obedient ones from death.

Parents: Christ, the sacrificial lamb of this feast, was sacrificed for us.
1 Corinthians 5:7
Children 1: What do the Israelites put on the doors and door frames of their homes?
Did they spill?
-2 Why did the Israelis do this?
-3Who was supposed to cross at midnight?
27

The Red Sea opens.
Guided by the pillar of cloud and fire
The people of Israel, guided by the pillar of cloud and fire, moved toward the Red Sea and the
A few days later, they reached the shores of the Red Sea, where they saw only water and nothing around them.
It was surrounded by high mountains. After the Israelites left Egypt, Pharaoh
He regretted releasing them and decided to return them. So his soldiers,
They summoned chariots and horsemen and set out after the people, and soon
The Egyptian army arrived behind the Israelis.
The people were terrified and cried out to Moses, "Why have you brought us to such a place?"
Did you do something dangerous? It would have been much better if we had enslaved the Egyptians and died in
"We didn't come to this desert?"
Moses said to them, “Do not be afraid! Stand still and see what the Lord will do for you today.”
God will fight for you, and you will drive out these Egyptians.
"You won't see."
Then the pillar of cloud went behind the people of Israel and came between them and the Egyptians.
For the Israelites, the sky was very bright and shining, but for the Egyptians, everything was dark.
The place was dark and black.
The east wind blew hard all night, and by morning there was no dry path for the people to cross.
It was created in the middle of the sea, and the sea waters formed a high wall on both sides of this path.
Then the pillar of cloud moved in front of the Israelites, and they easily passed through.
They crossed the middle of the sea and went to the other side of the waters.
The Egyptians also pursued them by land with their chariots and horses, but
God slowed their speed by removing the wheels of their chariots.
The Israelites crossed over on dry land and reached the other side of the sea. Then Moses
He raised his hand toward the sea, and the walls of water joined together. All of Pharaoh's army was in
They drowned in the water before the eyes of the people of Israel.
Then Moses sang a victory song, and all the people sang it together in unison.
Exodus Chapters 14 and 15



28

God's wrath destroys the Egyptian army.

Parents: The people of Israel crossed the Red Sea by faith, but when the Egyptians
They followed them, and when they tried to cross, they all drowned.
Hebrews Chapter 11 Verse 29
Children 1: How did people know which way to go?
-2-Who moves the cloud?
-3-What happened to Pharaoh's army?
29

                                      Ilya
God meets the needs of the prophet.
Centuries have passed. Now the people of Israel are living in the land that God promised.
Unfortunately, they forgot the Lord who had brought them out of Egypt.
They were worshiping idols. Some said, “Baal is the best god!”
Some said, "No, Stroud is bigger." And there were those who still said,
You must worship the idol Molech.
God hated this idolatry. He sent Elijah as His prophet to speak to them.
The people of Israel decreed that Elijah would obey and worship only the true God.
God was very displeased with the wicked king of Israel, Ahab, and said to Elijah, “Go and
"Tell Ahab that I will not send rain for several years." This message was addressed to Ahab.
He made Elijah angry. God sent Elijah into the wilderness to hide him from Ahab.
The river Crete sent.
Every morning and every evening, God sent meat and bread to Elijah through ravens. Early
Elijah had enough drinking water from the stream, but because of the lack of rain this
The stream soon dried up. The entire land of Israel was in famine.
Then the Lord said to Elijah, “Arise, go to the city of Saffron and stay there. I will
"I have ordered a widow there to provide for you."
When Elijah arrived at the city gate, he saw a widow gathering sticks.
Elijah asked him for some water and a piece of bread.
The widow replied, “As the Lord lives, I have no bread, only a handful of meal.”
And I have a little bit of oil. Now I've gathered some firewood to take with me to bake bread and share it with my son.
"Let's eat before we die of hunger."
Elijah said, "Don't worry! Go and cook it. But first bake me some bread and bring it, then
Make bread for yourself and your son with the rest of it, for the Lord says, "Until the rain comes down on you,
"Let the earth rain on me, and your flour and oil will not run out."
The widow went and did as Elijah had said. From then on, the woman and her son always
They had as much food as they wanted. Surely the angels of God were not afraid to fill the bowl.
Their flour and oil were very happy.
1 Kings Chapter 17
30

God sends ravens to bring food to Elijah.

Parents: But God is with those who honor Him and await His mercy.
He delivers them from death and provides for them in times of famine.
Keeps alive. Psalms chapter 33 verses 18 and 19
Children -1: Why was Elijah hiding in the desert?
-2- How did Elijah get food in the desert?
-3How much food did the widow have?
31


New Testament
Table of contents

34 The Angel Gabriel Visits Mary
36 The birth of Jesus in Bethlehem
38 Shepherds and wise men
40 Jesus is baptized and tested
42 Jesus and the Samaritan Woman
44 A paralyzed man
46 Five loaves and two fish
48 Walking on water
50 Christ and the Children
52 Mountaintop Experience
54 The Good Samaritan
56 Jesus teaches love and forgiveness
58 Lost Boys
60 The Crucifixion of Jesus
62 The Resurrection of Christ

The angel Gabriel visits Mary.
The Savior will be born.
What can be better than a long, dark night when you are not feeling well and cannot sleep?
Can you go to sleep? It's more tiring. The night hours pass slowly.
Finally you see the first rays of sunlight. The birds begin to sing, and
It seems that everything is becoming clearer. The state of the world before the birth of Christ
It was like a long, dark night. The prophets of Israel wrote that the people of the world walked in darkness.
They were going. The great light of the Son of God would illuminate this dark and sinful world.
For a long time, no one knew where or when this savior would be born.
Eve, the world's first mother, hoped that her son would be the savior. Moses declared
that God would send a prophet like him. Many years later, Isaiah, the prophet of the Lord, prophesied
He said that a virgin would give birth to a son. And after that another prophet named Micah, the name of a city
that the Son of God was to be born in it.
And still nothing had happened. As the years passed, the prophecies came true.
They were forgotten over time. For more than four hundred years, no message came from the sky.
But God had a perfect time to fulfill all the prophecies. He sent Gabriel.
He sent his angel to earth and to the Virgin Mary. Gabriel told her the name of the city, the place of residence, and
He even knew the room where Maryam lived. He entered the room and said, "Peace be upon you."
"You are very favored and favored by God, Mary! The Lord is with you!"
Mary was very afraid to see her heavenly guest. But Gabriel said to her, "O
Mary, do not be afraid. You will soon become pregnant and give birth to a son. He will be a very great man.
He will be the promised Messiah that everyone is waiting for, and his reign will be eternal.
"It is and will never end."
Maryam asked in surprise, "How is it possible for something like this to happen? I still don't understand."
"I am not married."
Gabriel replied, “The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of God will overshadow you.”
Therefore your child will be called the Son of God. There is nothing for God but
"It's not possible."
“I truly cannot understand,” said Mary, “but I am God’s servant. I am willing to do whatever is necessary.”
"I will obey what God says."
Luke Chapter 1 Verses 26-38

34

The angel Gabriel tells Mary that she will bear the Son of God.

Parents: That sign is that a virgin will conceive, give birth to a son, and
He will be called Immanuel. Isaiah 7:14

Children -1: Who sent the angel to Mary?
-2- Was Mary afraid of seeing the angel?
-3Who will be the son of Mary?


35

The birth of Jesus in Bethlehem
No empty rooms in the guesthouse
One of the greatest events in history was about to happen! Jesus was coming through
The Virgin Mary will give birth. He will be called the Son of the Most High.
Before Jesus was born, Mary visited one of her relatives named Elizabeth.
He went and stayed with him for three months and then returned to Nazareth. Joseph waited impatiently.
Mary returned and it was their wedding day. When Mary told Joseph that she would soon have a child,
He was very shocked and thought to himself that Mary had not been faithful to him.
Mary told Joseph about her encounter with the angel of the Lord, but he could not believe it.
He believed this and thought to himself: "Is it true that he met an angel?"
Did she have one? Is this baby supposed to be the Son of God? Was Mary telling the truth?
Joseph decided to break off his engagement to Mary, but he did not intend to marry her.
He would be disgraced and disgraced in society. But God knew his thoughts. That night God
The angel Gabriel sent him to Joseph in a dream. The angel said to him, “O Joseph,
Don't worry, Mary's child will be born through the power of God and the Spirit of God. And you will be called
"You will call him Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins." Joseph
He was very relieved and happily accepted Maryam as his wife.
At the same time, the Roman Empire decreed that all people must pay taxes.
They were also to be counted. So Joseph had to go to Bethlehem for the census and
He also took Maryam with him on this four-day and grueling journey.
When they arrived in Bethlehem, Mary needed a comfortable bed, but everyone
The rooms in the Bethlehem inn were full, and there was no room for Mary and Joseph.
So they had to stay in a manger. And there the baby Mary was born.
Joseph and Mary were looking at the baby with astonished delight. This baby was the promised Messiah!
Joseph said, “We will call him Jesus, just as the angel of the Lord told me.”
"He is the one God sent to save us."
Mary wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and Joseph laid him in a manger.
Matthew Chapter 1 Verses 18-25
Luke Chapter 2 Verses 1-7


36

The baby Jesus is born in a manger.

Parents: A child has been born to us, a son has been given to us.
Isaiah Chapter 9 Verse 6

Children -1: Who told Joseph to name the baby Jesus?
-2- In which city was Jesus born?
-3- Where did they lay Jesus?


37

1Shepherds and wise men
Angels announce the good news
A few hours after Jesus was born, Bethlehem fell very still in the stillness of the night.
In the distance, a dog was barking. The sleepy city had no idea that
What a great event has happened. A little further away from the city, on the hillside, shepherds are
They tended their flocks in the dark of night.
Suddenly a light from heaven shone around them and an angel appeared. The shepherds were afraid.
But the angel said to them, “Do not be afraid, for I bring you good news of great joy.”
"I have," the angel said. "Christ the Savior has now been born in Bethlehem. You
"You will find the baby wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger." Then the place was filled with a dazzling light.
The place was illuminated by the presence of thousands of angels. The sound of their heavenly worship filled the air.
"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men."
Then the angels disappeared as quickly as they had appeared.
Then the shepherds hurried over the hills and plains to find their way to Bethlehem.
There they found the baby just as the angels had said, and they were amazed.
They told Joseph and Mary about their meeting with the angels.
Finally, the shepherds returned to their flock. They shared this good news with everyone they could.
They saw it, shared it, and thanked God.
Far away, some astronomers saw a bright star in the east. They
They knew that this star was God's sign that a savior king had been born.
They quickly loaded their camels and set off towards Israel. In Israel they
For the one who has been born King of the Jews, for his star has risen in the east.
They asked: "Where?"
"We have come to him." Herod led them to Bethlehem and worshiped him.
That night, that bright star was moving toward Bethlehem. That star led the men
It led straight to where Jesus was.
The astrologers were so happy to see Jesus! They stood in front of this baby
They knelt down and worshiped the king. Then they opened their gifts and presented them with gold and spices.
They presented it to him. Perhaps it was God's work to meet the needs of his faithful servants Joseph and Mary.
Fix it.
                                                            Luke chapter 2 verses 8 to 20
Matthew Chapter 2 Verses 1-12
38

The shepherds listen to the good news from the angels.

Parents: For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life.
Whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. John 3:16

Children 1: Why were the shepherds out at night?
-2-Who told the shepherds that Jesus had been born?
-3-What led the astrologers to Jesus?


39

Jesus is baptized and tested
A voice from heaven
The Bible gives us very little information about Jesus' childhood.
We know that he was born in Nazareth and was obedient to his parents. While in stature
As a man grew, he also grew in wisdom. The Bible tells us that he
It was the satisfaction of God and the people.
Jesus was thirty years old when he began his ministry of preaching, teaching, and healing. Now is the time
The words of Gabriel had come true. Jesus went to the Jordan River, where John was baptizing.
The Baptist was baptizing people, and he moved. John was surrounded by a group of leaders.
surrounded by religious leaders, tax collectors, soldiers, and ordinary people. Yahya was speaking to the people.
He said, "You must repent of your sins. Don't be greedy and selfish. If you take more than you need,
You have food and clothing, help others. Do your work properly and well.
Give without grumbling or complaining. This is what God wants from you.”
When Jesus came forward, John said, “Look! The Lamb of God, who takes away sin.”
"He will take away the world." Then he baptized Jesus. Suddenly the heavens were opened, and the Holy Spirit descended upon him.
It came down like a dove and remained on Jesus. Then the voice of the Lord came from heaven.
It was heard that "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased."
Then the Spirit of God led Jesus into the wilderness to pray and fast. After
Jesus had not eaten anything for forty days and nights, and the devil came to tempt him.
He wanted Jesus to serve him. So to test him, he said, “If you are the Son of God,
"You are the one who turns these stones into bread." Then the devil took Jesus to the highest point of the temple.
He took him and said to him, "Throw yourself down! God has promised to send his angels to
"Then the devil took him to a very high mountain, to the top of which he was thrown."
He said, "If you worship me, I will give you all these lands."
But Satan could not do anything to turn Jesus away from the will of God and to destroy him.
Worship. Jesus defeated Satan with the Word of God in the face of all temptations and trials.
Then angels came to nurse him and strengthen him.
Matthew Chapter 3 Verses 13-17 and Chapter 4 Verses 1-11
Mark Chapter 1 Verses 1-13
                                                           Luke chapter 3 verses 15 to 23
John Chapter 1 Verses 25-34
40

John baptizes Jesus in the Jordan River.

Parents: Jesus himself was tempted in these matters, but he did not bow his head even once.
He did not sin. Hebrews 4:15

Children 1: Who said, “This is my beloved son”?
-2-Who tempted Christ in the wilderness?
-3 How did Christ resist Satan?


41

Jesus and the Samaritan woman
New life in Samaria
It was about noon, and Jesus spent a few moments by Jacob's well near the town of Sychar.
Samaria was sitting down to rest, waiting for her disciples to go to buy food.
They had gone to the city.
At that time a woman came to the well to draw water. Jesus asked her for a little water.
And the woman was very surprised by this request of Jesus. The woman knew from Jesus' appearance that
He had to be a Jew. And Jewish men usually didn't talk to Samaritans -
Especially with a Samaritan woman! So the woman asked Jesus, “Do you ask me for a drink?”
"That I am a Samaritan?" And he thought to himself, "Who is this strange man?"
Jesus replied, “If you only knew what a great gift God can give you, and that
"Who am I, that you would ask me for living water?" Jesus continued. "People
After drinking this water, they will soon be thirsty. But whoever drinks of the living water that I give them will be
I will give him to drink, and he will never thirst again, for this water will become in him a spring of water welling up to
"Eternal life is boiling."
The woman said to him, "Sir, give me this water, so that I may never thirst or need anything else."
I come across this well every day.
Jesus wanted to shake her conscience, so he said to her, "Go home and call your husband." But
The woman said, “I have no husband.” Jesus lovingly replied, “I know you have had five husbands.”
"Oh, and now you're living with a man you're not married to!" the astonished woman said.
“Sir, you must be a prophet. I have many questions. But I know that when the Lord Jesus Christ
"Come, he will explain everything."
Jesus replied, “I am the Christ.”
The woman left her water jug at the well and started running quickly towards the village.
He shouted to the people, "Come and see the man who told me my whole life."
He must be the Messiah.”
Immediately a large crowd of Samaritans came to Jacob's well looking for the woman. The people of the city
Jesus asked them, "Stay with us for a few days and tell us more about the good news."
"So Jesus stayed in Sychar two more days, and many people came to him."
They believed in him.
John Chapter 4

42

Jesus speaks to a Samaritan woman at Jacob's well.

Parents: As the Scripture says, whoever believes in me will have life from his
Rivers of living water will flow out of you. John 7:38

Children 1: What was the name of the well?
-2- What kind of water did Jesus offer the woman?
-3 Did the people of Sychar believe in Christ?


43

A paralyzed man
Jesus heals the sick and forgives sins
Jesus was now famous for his healing the sick and his teachings.
Al had become famous and the day
The crowd that crowded around him grew louder. But he often tried to
He would find a secluded corner, away from the crowd, and pray to God the Father for more strength.
The Jewish religious leaders, the scribes and Pharisees, were also looking for Christ.
They did not believe in Christ, but rather, because of their jealousy toward Him, they sought to
They were trying to find fault with him. One day, while Jesus was in a house full of people,
While they were teaching, suddenly there was a loud noise above their heads. When they looked up
They looked and saw people drilling holes in the ceiling. The hole was large and
It grew bigger, and then an object was sent down through that hole. That object, the body of a
The paralyzed man was on a bed that was being lowered by four men.
Jesus was overjoyed to see their faith. He was thrilled to see that these men were doing this for their friend.
They were very pleased that they had gone to such trouble.
Everyone was looking at Christ with interest. Could he have performed a miracle?
Even though Christ had never seen this man before?
He hadn't seen it, but he knew that the man
He needs something much more important than physical healing. Christ said, “Rejoice, my son, for I have
"Your sins are forgiven."
The scribes and Pharisees were very angry at Jesus' words. They thought to themselves:
How could he allow himself to forgive this man's sins? Only God can.
Forgive sins. Who does this man think he is to act like this?
Jesus knew what was going on in the minds of the scribes and Pharisees. Then He asked them:
"Is it harder to forgive sins or to heal a disease? I will show you."
"I have the authority to forgive sins." Then Jesus turned to the paralyzed man and said to him,
He said, “Get up, pick up your mat, and go home.” The paralyzed man got up immediately.
And he packed his bed and headed towards his house with joy and gratitude.
The man's four friends and those who had seen this miracle thanked God.
They were amazed at the great power of Christ.
Matthew Chapter 9 Verses 2-8
                                                       Mark chapter 2 verses 2 to 12
Luke Chapter 5 Verses 17-26

44

Four men lowered their paralyzed friend from the roof of the house.

Parents: Jesus said, "If you believe, all things are possible for you."
Mark Chapter 9 Verse 23

Children 1: What was the man's problem?
-2Who brought the man to Christ? How did they do it?
-3What did Christ do for him?


45

Five loaves and two fish
Christ Feeds a Large Crowd
Jesus said to his disciples, "It is good for you to go away to a quiet place and rest a while."
He had heard that his friend John the Baptist had just been killed in prison.
And he wanted to be alone. But there were so many people who wanted to see him that they wouldn't let him.
To be alone. Men, women, and children gathered around him, and Jesus' heart was moved with compassion for them.
Fuel. They were like sheep without a shepherd.
Soon the mountainside was filled with crowds who were thirsting to hear the word of Christ and
The truth was that they were drinking. It was full. A few hours passed and it was getting dark, so
The disciples went to Jesus and said, “Send these people home quickly.
"It's getting late and they haven't eaten anything during the day."
Jesus asked, “How many people are here?” The disciples answered.
“Five thousand men, besides women and children,” they said. “Why do you tell them?” Jesus asked.
"Aren't you going to feed me?" He turned to Philip and asked, "Where can we get some?"
"Shall we buy bread to feed all this crowd?" Just then Andreas arrived and
He said, “Here is a boy who has five loaves and two fish. He rejoices in what he has.”
"He will give it to you."
Jesus already knew what to do. Despite the boy and his bread and fish, Jesus
He had planned his extraordinary miracle. He told his disciples: “Bring the people to
"Divide them into groups of fifty and one hundred, and make them sit in neat groups." Then Christ
Looking up to heaven, Jesus blessed the loaves and fishes, then broke them and gave them to the disciples.
The disciples gave. The disciples also distributed the bread and fish among the people. All the people were so happy.
They ate until they were full. Jesus said to his disciples, “Gather up the leftovers and do not let anyone gather them.”
"Nothing should be thrown away." The disciples obeyed and filled twelve baskets with leftovers.
They gathered. What a miracle! They had started with only five loaves and two fish.
Does Christ still perform such miracles today? Does He have His eyes on you? Is He present?
Are you giving everything you have to Him so that others can be blessed too?
Matthew Chapter 14 Verses 15-21
                                                       Mark chapter 6 verses 30 to 44
Luke Chapter 9 Verses 10-17
John Chapter 6 Verses 1-14

46

The young man gives his fish and bread to Jesus.

Parents: Seek first the kingdom of God, and all other things will be given to you.
Matthew Chapter 6 Verse 33

Children -1: How many loaves and how many fish did that boy have?
2-Did everyone have enough food to eat?
-3How many baskets were filled with leftover food?


47

Walking on water
Rescue from the storm
After the miracle of the two loaves and five fish, Christ knew that some Jews would try to
They will make him king.
They thought such a man could give them free bread and protect them from the government.
He will also free the hated Romans and even rule the world!
In reality, Christ was a king. But he needed soldiers and swords to establish himself.
He had no government. Jesus reigns in the hearts of those who love and obey Him.
He will rule. Christ did what any leader under pressure from his followers should do.
He escaped from the crowd and went to a secluded corner to pray.
That night, while Jesus was praying, a violent storm arose on the lake.
It happened right there. Christ knew that his disciples were in that moment.
They were on a boat and their lives were in danger. Late that night, he went to help them.
He was walking on the raging lake as if he were walking on dry land.
When the disciples imagined a ghost coming toward them on the choppy water,
They cried out in terror. But Jesus said to them, “Take courage, it is I.”
"Don't be afraid!" It was then that the disciples realized that it was their Lord. The disciples
They could hardly believe what they were seeing. How could Christ be on the
The raging waters move? Suddenly a thought came to Peter and he answered
He said, “Lord, if it is really you, call me to come to you on the water.”
Jesus said, “Come!” Peter bravely stepped out of the boat. At first it was great.
In fact, he walked on water like Christ! But Peter walked on the high waves and the rough sea.
He looked into the darkness and was afraid and began to sink. He cried out, “Lord, save me!”
At that moment Jesus reached out his hand and caught Peter. As soon as they both
They got into the boat, the storm calmed down, and immediately the boat reached the shore. The disciples
They thought, "How is such a thing possible?" It was just a moment ago that everyone
They were in the middle of a raging lake! The disciples, stunned and astonished, humbly bowed down to
They bowed their knees. They declared, “Truly you are the Son of God.”
Matthew Chapter 14 Verses 22-33
                                                        Mark chapter 6 verses 45 to 53
John Chapter 6 Verses 15-21
48

Peter cries out, "Lord, save me!"

Parents: Do not be afraid, only believe in me. Mark Chapter 5 Verse 36

Children -1: Name the two people who walked on water.
-2What did the disciples think when they saw Jesus walking on the water?
-3. What happened when Peter was afraid?



49

Christ and the children
Who will be the greatest in the kingdom of God?
One day some parents brought their children to Jesus to see him. Some of them
Mothers came with small children in their arms. They wanted God to help them.
He will place it on their children and bless them. But because of the large number of people who
They were unable to approach Jesus, and the disciples were also unable to approach them.
They said, "Don't bother God, He is busy and has no time for children."
Jesus did not like his disciples' answer. He sternly told them, "Never!"
Do not turn away the children. My kingdom is made up of those who are trustworthy, full of
They are loving, humble, and forgiving, just like children. Always let the child
"Come to me."
Then Jesus embraced the children one by one. He touched each child with love and tenderness.
He lifted up his hands and blessed them. The disciples watched this scene in amazement.
God was showing great attention to these little children.
Another day the disciples were arguing among themselves about who among them was the greatest.
It is the biggest. Each of them thought they were more important than the others.
So they asked Jesus, “Who is the greatest in the kingdom of God?”
Jesus simply placed a child in their midst. He declared, “Until the heart
"Do not change yourselves and become like this child, you will not enter my kingdom."
A child does not try to be important, rich, powerful, or famous. He loves his parents.
He has and is sure that they will take care of him. Whoever is humble, and obeys the Father
The heavenly one trusts himself like a child, he will be the greatest in the kingdom of God.
Christ continued, “It would be better for a man to have a millstone tied around his neck and to be drowned in the depths.”
"May the sea sink until it takes a child away from me and leads him to sin."
Jesus said: Children have angels in heaven to protect them, and
The kingdom of God is made up of these children.
Matthew Chapter 18 Verses 1-6 and Verse 10
                                Mark chapter 9 verses 33 to 37 and chapter 10 verses 13 to 16
Luke chapter 9 verses 46-48 and chapter 18 verses 15-17


50

Christ blesses the little children.

Parents: Children and infants sing your praises. You are the enemy and the avenger.
You silence the recipients, and you are safe from their hostility.
Psalms Chapter 8 Verse 2
Children -1: Who said Jesus didn't have time for children?
-2 Does Jesus love all children?
-3 Does Christ love you?
51

Mountain top experience
Moses and Elijah appear with Christ.
One day Jesus told his disciples that he would soon be persecuted and suffer greatly.
The chief priests and the scribes will treat him cruelly and will kill him in Jerusalem.
But on the third day after his burial, he rose from the dead and will live again.
Meanwhile, Jesus commanded his disciples to remain faithful to him and never to leave him.
They should not be ashamed. He taught them not to live selfishly, but to be kind to everyone.
Then he promised them that some of them would see the Son of Man before they died.
They will see him enter his kingdom.
This type of teaching was very new to the disciples. They could not understand that
Jesus came into the world to be persecuted, to suffer, and to die. Instead, they thought,
They will reign on earth alongside Christ. That is why the talk we are now hearing is
They were saddened to hear about Jesus.
About a week later, Jesus took Peter, James, and John up a mountain with him.
The tired disciples fell asleep very early. While Jesus was praying, his face
He was transformed and shone like the sun, and his clothes became white and dazzling. Then Moses
and Elijah appeared to him from heaven, and the three of them began to talk together.
The disciples suddenly woke up and were amazed at what had happened to Jesus.
What had happened? They were terrified to see the three shining figures in front of them.
Somehow, three of Jesus' disciples knew that the other two people were Moses and Elijah. Very soon
Moses and Elijah disappeared. Then a bright cloud covered Jesus and the disciples.
A voice came out of the cloud and said, “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.”
"Hear him."
Christ planned this meeting for his three disciples and all believers of future generations.
This is a sample of the glory he will have when he returns to earth.
He will return. Then all the saints who have been redeemed by His blood will be with Him. All
Those who died before His return will be resurrected, like Moses. Those who
Those who are alive when Christ returns will be transformed in the blink of an eye.
Matthew Chapter 16 Verses 21-28 and Chapter 17 Verses 1-10
                                                            Mark chapter 9 verses 1 to 13
Luke Chapter 9 Verses 28-36

52

Three of Jesus' disciples see him with Moses and Elijah.

Parents: And when we were with Jesus on the holy mountain, the voice of the Lord came from heaven
We have heard of his coming. 2 Peter 1:18

Children -1: What were the names of the three disciples who went up the mountain with Jesus?
-2-What were the names of the other two men who appeared on the mountain with Jesus?
-3-What happened to Jesus?


53

Good Samaritan
To love others
One day, while Jesus was teaching, one of the scribes asked Jesus this question:
“Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?”
Jesus asked him, “What is written in the Law?” He replied, “The Lord God.”
"Love yourself with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind";
And “Love your neighbor as yourself.” Jesus said, “You have answered correctly.”
“Do this and you will live.” But he was still not satisfied and asked, “My neighbor?”
Who is it?” So Jesus decided to teach him a lesson with this story:
One day a man was traveling along a dangerous road from Jerusalem to Jericho. Suddenly, several
The bandits attacked him. They grabbed him, beat him, and stole his money and clothes.
And they left him half-dead, naked and wounded, by the side of the road to die.
After some time, a Jewish priest who worked in the temple in Jerusalem happened to be passing by on that road.
When he saw the man, he turned and went to the other side of the road.
Then a Levite passed by, who was also working in the temple. He took a few steps forward to
to see the wounded man up close, but because he wanted to dedicate himself to the services in the temple
He was keeping it clean, so he also went to the other side of the road and continued on his way.
Finally, a Samaritan passed by. He felt sorry for the wounded man and
He immediately began to clean his wounds. He rubbed oil on the man's wounds.
to ease the pain and then bandaged the wounds. Then, with great care,
He lifted the man up and put him on his donkey. He took him to the nearest inn and stayed there until morning.
He stayed by her side and nursed her.
The next morning, he gave the innkeeper two silver coins and told him to take care of the man.
Do it until it gets better. If it costs more than this, I'll pay it back when I get back.
I will pay you.
Then Jesus looked the lawyer straight in the eyes and asked, “Do you think that
"Which of the three passersby showed love to this man?"
The lawyer replied, “The one who showed him kindness.” Jesus replied, “Go and do the same.”
"He acts."
Luke Chapter 10 Verses 25-37

54

The good Samaritan helps the wounded man.

Parents: My children, our love should not be just in words, but in action as well.
Let's show it. 1 John 3:18

Children 1: What did the robbers do to the man?
-2- Had the Jewish priest and the Levite shown any love?
-3. Did the Samaritan show kindness to the wounded man?


55

Jesus teaches love and forgiveness
The Lost Sheep and the Ungrateful Slave
One day Pharisees, Jewish scribes, and tax collectors came to listen to Jesus.
They were disgusted to see thieves, liars, cheats, and bad people gathered around him.
They were astonished. They protested, saying, “Jesus should not let these sinners
"They should mix with the 'respectable Jews', and they should not eat with these people."
Jesus heard their grumbling. He said to them, "Suppose you have a hundred sheep. One
At night you realize that one of the sheep is missing. Do you go to bed easily?
And you think it doesn't matter if one sheep is lost? Of course not! It doesn't matter how many.
Tired, you will try with all your might to find the lost one. Then with
You happily return the lost sheep to the flock. You invite your neighbors.
That they may rejoice with you, because your lost lamb has been found.
Jesus continued, "This is how God feels about people. In heaven there is joy and happiness."
There is nothing greater than the return of a sinner who humbly returns to the kingdom of God.
Compared to the other ninety-nine who are in obedience. Peter also needed to learn that God
How does he feel about people? Then he asked him, “Lord, how many times must a person
"Whoever sins against me, I forgive him? Is seven times enough?" Jesus replied:
“No, Peter. You must forgive him seventy-seven times.” Consider this example:
A king who owed a large sum of money to one of his servants ordered that this man,
His wife and children were sold as slaves. But his servant threw himself at the king's feet.
And he begged to have mercy on him. The king was moved with pity and forgave him all the man's debt.
This servant went out of the king's palace, and another servant who owed him a small sum of money came to him.
He found Bud. He grabbed him by the collar and said, "You have to pay me your debt right now!"
The servant pleaded, "Please give me time to prepare your money and pay it back."
"But the debtor's servant would not listen to him and threw the poor man into prison."
When the news reached the king, he became angry and said to the wicked servant, “I
I gave you a lot of money and you didn't want to give that little money to that poor man.
"That's why I'm sending you to prison now to pay me all your debts."
Christ said, “Remember, God will not forgive you unless you repent with all your heart.”
"Forgive each other."
Matthew Chapter 18 Verses 7-14 and Verses 21-35
Luke Chapter 15 Verses 3-7

56

The shepherd happily returns his lost lamb to the flock.

Parents: The Son of Man has come to save that which was lost. Matthew 18:11

Children -1: Why does the shepherd leave his ninety-nine sheep?
-2- How often does God want us to forgive others?
-3- Will God forgive us if we don't forgive others?



57

The Lost Boy
The lost boy has been found.
Jesus wanted the Pharisees, who considered themselves righteous, to understand that God
He loves everyone, both the good and the bad. Therefore, He gave them the following example:
A man had two sons. One day the younger son demanded his inheritance from his father. So
The father divided and gave to both sons what they inherited from his property.
The young man traveled with great joy to a distant land with his inheritance. And soon
He squandered all his money on revelry and having fun with his friends. One day, he was forced to
He faced a harsh reality. He had run out of money, and since he had no money, neither did his friends.
He had been abandoned. He was very hungry, there was famine everywhere and food was very scarce, and the boy
The young man was poor and helpless.
The only job this boy could find was feeding a farmer's pigs. He
He was so hungry that he would have eaten the pigs' food if the farmer had allowed it.
Finally he came to himself and said, "In my father's house there is more than enough food, even for those servants."
"But I'm dying of hunger here. So go home."
"I will go and ask my father to have mercy on me."
Then the boy set off on his journey home, still a long way off.
When he was home, his father came running to greet him. The father welcomed the boy with open arms, dressed in his best clothes.
He hugged him, dirty and disheveled. The son said, “Father, I have sinned against you and against God. I deserve to be
"I do not want to be called your son, but please accept me as one of your servants." But
The father called his servants and said to them, “Put the best robe on him, and put a ring on his finger.”
Put sandals on his feet, and bring the fattened calf and kill it, and celebrate.”
When the older son heard this, he was very angry and did not want to go to the party.
His brother was welcome to attend. But his father found him and asked him to
The older son said to his father, “This is not fair! I have been here for years.”
I have served you for a long time and have always obeyed you. But you have never done even one thing.
You didn't make a small sacrifice for me to celebrate with my friends. But as soon as this boy
"The ungrateful man returns home. You slaughter a fattened calf for him and throw a party!"
The father replied, "Son, everything I have is yours. We need to be happy and
Let us celebrate, for your brother was dead, but is alive again. He was lost, and is now found.
Found.
Luke Chapter 15 Verses 11-32
58

The lost boy is happily welcomed home.

Parents: In the same way, the angels of God rejoice over one sinner who repents.
Turn to God. Luke 15:10

Children -1: Where did the younger son go after receiving his inheritance?
-2- What did the father do when he saw the young son returning home?
-3How did his older brother react?


59

The Crucifixion of Jesus
Great suffering
Christ's time on earth was drawing to a close. He knew from the beginning that he would have to suffer much.
He was to be dragged and killed. But the people who followed him did not want to have anything to do with it.
They hoped that Jesus would be a king who would save them from Roman rule.
They didn't want him to talk about his death. They didn't understand that Jesus
He came to be the king of their hearts, not the king of an earthly country.
The spiritual leaders and people who did not like Christ's message were seeking to kill him. They
They stirred up a crowd and arrested Jesus, took him to court, and falsely accused him.
They beat him. Pilate, the Roman governor, did not want to condemn Christ because he knew he was
He is innocent. But the angry crowd shouted with great noise, "Crucify him!"
Crucify him! Pilate was afraid of the chaos this crowd might cause.
Pilate, nervously washing his hands in front of the people, said, "I am responsible for the death of this man."
"I am not a man." Then he handed Jesus over to them to lead him outside the city to a private place.
They took Jesus to Golgotha. There they nailed him to the cross. Although he was in pain at that moment,
He had many enemies, but he did not hate them. Jesus prayed, “Father, forgive them, for they do not
"They know what they are doing."
That day two thieves were also crucified, one on each side of Jesus. One of them
They said, “If you are the Christ, save yourself and us from death.” But the other thief said,
“We have the right to die, but this man is innocent.” Then he turned to Jesus and pleaded.
“Remember me when you come into your kingdom.” Jesus said to him at that very moment,
"You will be with me in Paradise this very day!"
At noon, the whole world was plunged into total darkness. Jesus suffered on the cross for another three hours.
He won. Just before he died, he shouted in triumph, “It is finished!” His work on earth was finished.
It was over. Now he could free the whole world from the grip of sin and Satan.
Suddenly the whole earth shook, the rocks split apart, and many graves opened. The soldiers
The terrified Romans said to themselves, “Surely this was the Son of God!” Jesus himself allowed this to happen.
These wicked men should be killed. When he died, the eternal power of death that had overtaken the people of the world for
He destroyed sin. Now, whoever accepts Christ as the sacrifice for their sins,
Receives the gift of eternal life.
Matthew Chapter 27 Verses 1-54
Mark Chapter 15 Verses 1-39
                                                            Luke chapter 23 verses 1 to 47
John Chapter 18 Verses 28-40 and Chapter 19 Verses 1-30

60

Jesus is crucified between two thieves.

Parents...: The blood of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, cleanses us from our sins.
1 John Chapter 1 Verse 7

Children -1: Where did they take Christ to be crucified?
-2How many men were crucified?
-3 Why did Jesus die?


61

The Resurrection of Christ
Glorious morning
Christ's faithful friends watched his crucifixion from a distance. For them, seeing the Master's death was a
Their beloved was very painful! On that day, God's wrath against man's sin was poured out on the son of God.
The imperfection and perfection of God was poured out. This hour was the most difficult hour in the history of humanity.
Late in the afternoon, on the day Jesus was crucified, two respectable men named Joseph and
Nicodemus came to the foot of the cross. They loved Jesus, but they did not openly follow him,
Because they were afraid of the Jewish leaders. These men took the nails that were used to crucify Jesus through his feet and
They pulled out his beaten hands from his body. They wrapped him in a cloth scented with myrrh and aloes, and
Then they placed him in a new tomb in which no one had yet been laid.
The next day some Jewish priests and Pharisees went to Pilate and said to him, “This man is a deceiver.
He had said that he would raise the dead after three days. Now order guards to guard the tomb.
They must be left to guard the tomb. Otherwise, his disciples will come and steal his body.
"They will steal him and then announce that he has risen from the grave." So Pilate asked them to
They guard the grave around the clock.
Early the next morning, a violent earthquake shook the tomb. A huge, blinding light
It shook the sleepy soldiers guarding the tomb. An angel with a face like
A bright lightning bolt and a snow-white robe stood before them. Terror and anxiety were present.
The guards were surrounded. Jesus had risen from the dead with power and glory. The angel of the stone
He rolled the front of the tomb aside and sat on it.
At that time, some women were coming to the tomb to anoint Jesus' body. They were surprised to see the angel.
Don't be crucified! I know that Jesus was afraid. But the angel said lovingly, "You are afraid.
"He is not here, for he has risen!" So he went quickly.
The women were speechless from sheer terror and fear, but their hearts were filled with joy.
Christ's resurrection shows that He is stronger than any other power. For He was able to conquer death.
We know that He is able to defeat any problem in our lives. Resurrection
Christ gives us hope because we know that He is not dead but alive. He is alive and in heaven with us.
God the Father sits there. He has a place for all who love and seek Him.
He has prepared a place for them, and when followers of Christ die, they go to heaven and spend eternity with Him.
They live. What great happiness!
Matthew Chapter 27 Verses 55-66 and Chapter 28 Verses 1-10
                                                              Mark chapter 16 verses 1 to 14
Luke Chapter 24 Verses 1-49
John Chapter 20 Verses 1-23

62

The women are stunned and amazed to see the angel in the tomb.

Parents: But Jesus, by rising from the dead, proved that he was the powerful Son of God and
It has the divine holy nature. Romans Chapter 1 Verse 4

Children 1: Who guarded the grave?
-2Who moved the tombstone?
-3What did the angel say to the women?


63

The path to God and peace
We live in a world that is polluted by sin. Sin is anything that
It is against God's standard of holiness. When we do not follow the commands of God, our Creator,
We commit sin. Sin separates us from God, the source of life.
When Adam and Eve sinned in the Garden of Eden, sin entered the world. The Bible says:
We have all “sinned and fall short of the glory of God” (Romans 3:23).
The Holy Spirit adds that the penalty for sin is eternal death or eternal hell:
"When the soul has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and sin, when it is full-grown, brings forth death."
(James 1:15)
But we do not have to suffer the pain of eternal death in hell. God provides salvation through death.
He has provided for us His only Son, Jesus Christ, because Christ is perfect and without sin.
"For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son."
“He gave this life so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life” (John 3:16).
To sacrifice means to pay a price for the benefit of another person. For this, the sacrificer is a Baha'i.
Jesus Christ was God's sacrifice. Christ's death was the penalty for everyone's sin.
He must accept this sacrifice and truly repent of his sin. Repenting from sins in this way
It means that a person truly seeks to change their ways, which violate God's standards.
Forgive and return through yourself (Acts 2:38 and 3:19).
Christ died, but he did not remain dead. After three days, the Spirit of God miraculously took him from the dead.
The Spirit of God does the same thing in us. When we accept Christ as our Savior,
We accept our sacrifice and repent of our sins, our hearts are changed and we are transformed from the perspective of
We become spiritually alive. New behaviors and desires arise in us (2 Corinthians 11:11).
(1 John 3:9) We make decisions that please God. (1 John 3:17)
If we make a mistake and commit a sin, we can ask God for forgiveness.
Let us confess our sins, and He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
“He purifies us” (1 John 1:9).
When our hearts are changed, we are inclined to grow spiritually as well.
We will joyfully let Christ take ownership of our lives and we will be eager to
Let us become like Him. To do this, we must meditate on God’s Word and pray to God.
Let's participate. By being baptized and sharing the good news of Christ's salvation with others.
We testify to the transformation of our hearts and our victory over sin. Fellowship with a group of believers brings us together in
It makes our faith life stronger and more powerful (1 John 1:7).


