                 List of contents a




Is the Bible authentic?




Written by: Robert Al Soussi
             Robert L. Saucy

Returned: C. Ma'afifpur


A basic study of the Bible, its source and purpose, and
How do we really know that the Word is God?

Table of Contents B




Is the Bible authentic?




Written by: Robert Al Soussi


Returned: C. Ma'afifpur


A basic study of the Bible, its source and purpose, and

How do we really know that the Word is God?

Table of Contents C


Rob. Al. Susi, Professor of Systematic Theology at Talbot Theological Seminary

It is.

He attended George Fox College and Westmont College (A.B. and D.A.) and theological seminary.

Dallas (Th.M.Th.P) is engaged in teaching theology.

                                     List of contents d


Table of Contents

1- The Revelation of God 1............. ................................................................

2- Special Revelation 17 ..............................................................................

3- The uniqueness of the Bible 33 .............. ................................

4- The inspiration of the Bible 51 ...................................................................

5- The Testimony of the Writers of the Bible 65 ......................................................

6- Christ's View of the Bible 79 ...........................................

7- The Bible is inspired and inerrant 94 ........................................

8- Examining Problems in the Bible 107 .............. ................................

9- The Canon of the Holy Bible 123 ......................................................

10- The Holy Spirit and the Word 137 ..............................................................

11- The Power of God's Word 152 ...................................................................

12- Using the Bible 167 ......................... ................................

                                       Introduction e




Introduction
We see signs of humanitarian action all around us.

Prominent figures from the worlds of politics, sports, and art have recently converted to Christianity.

Reports from publishing organizations indicate high sales of books in

Missionary missions regularly report news to the news media and the press.

In this context, they are pursuing. This is how the common people discovered the concept of "new birth".

They have done it.

This sudden shift in secularism has two aspects, both positive and negative.

It is both sad and exciting. The happy side of it is an opportunity for millions of people.

Americans who are becoming familiar with the gospel of Jesus Christ. It has been half a century since

Christianity is a Bible that is mocked by American cultural propagandists - movies, newspapers,

Stories and television have been established. The public has been so busy with their work that

Who did not have time to listen to the Gospel. But today some have

They listen.

But the unfortunate aspect of this development is the weak signs of this newly born religion.

It is: a ritual centered on experience and shrouded in mystery and symbolism.

Biblical Christianity has an experiential element, but it is dependent on hypothesis and

It is the body. It is what we think and experience and relate to.

This is why this book and other publications in this field are being published.

Introduction and


These eight books are for individual and collective study and with the aim of bearing witness to the truth,

As evangelists, we should not just evangelize the American community.

We should preach the word of God everywhere we go.

Bruce L. Shelley

Introduction 1




1

The revelation of God



Although some people do not believe, man is a religious being. In his heart and mind,

He poses questions that those around him cannot answer. Where did I come from?

Where am I going? What is the purpose of my life on this earth? What is the reason for living?

And does history exist? These questions remain unanswered without a powerful revelation.

There are two conditions that require a powerful revelation.

The first condition is that human limitations prevent him from achieving the answers to these questions.

Endless, it stops. To know his origin, man must go back to the beginning of his creation.

It must return, otherwise it is obvious that it cannot bear witness to its own creation.

In addition, in order to understand the meaning and purpose of life, a person must be able to fully

History has a scope. But every human being is a very small part of the flow of time.

We are like marchers in a long parade. May we be able to see what

We see it all around us, we understand it, but unless someone has a plan for this long journey,

If it doesn't show us, we won't understand its general concept and purpose.

The second thing that makes discovery necessary is the imperfect human mind. Consciousness

Man is not only limited, but as a result of sin, he has become even more limited. While

Introduction 2


Not all people believe in this biblical hypothesis, thinkers throughout the centuries have

They have concluded that even in their own lives, there are limitations and obstacles to understanding.

There are true facts. Shakespeare said, "This is the city of friends that

"Like the imperfect, their song is entangled in the world, they have fallen from the voice!"

The Bible says that man is separated from God through sin and is “in his own mind.”

"dark" and "futile in his imagination" (Ephesians 4:18 and Romans 1:21).

Psychologists have defined humans as rational animals.

With such a definition, they say that our mind is in harmony with our will. We cannot be free.

Let us act and live from our own mind and will. Our mind inevitably determines our actions.

Justifies. In this way, a person whose will does not follow the truth, the truth

Pythagoras, a Greek philosopher and mathematician of the sixth century BC,

Milad clearly observed this problem in humans, and said: "Knowing the duties

It is not easy, except that man receives his duty from God or from a person who is from God.

He has learned, been trained, or has acquired the necessary knowledge of his duties through divine means,

"Achieve."

The mind is like a mirror, where the light of divine revelation can be seen,

Reflect, answer life's problems correctly.


The possibility of discovering God

We said that to find the answers to the questions raised above, we need a discovery.

We have a spiritual. Is such a revelation possible? Our reason for expecting such a

A revelation is hidden in the nature of man and God. Man, unlike all animals, is merely

Introduction 3


He is not satisfied with being in this world. Human nature seeks perfection and is interested in

There are more things. Physically, man is a part of nature, but from a spiritual perspective,

Spirituality transcends nature and seeks things that nature cannot provide.

The logic of the laws of seeking and obtaining in the territory of the ruler is that this

Needs are answered. Surely everyone is waiting for creativity to create realities.

Adapt to the needs of every human being. Even natural evolution ensures the compatibility of everything with

Its environment dictates. Some things about every creature are necessary for its survival.

They exist, and if they don't, people will. The eternal ambiguities of human thought in the matter

Supernatural things - even in the beginning of evolution - require supernatural domination.

It is to be a human response. Otherwise, the human ability to design such a

Questions should have disappeared long ago. In fact, this principle of evolution is invalid.

It is a natural process of evolution that considers humans as accidental creations in nature.

A definition of the answer to man's questions about the supernatural and his existence,

Therefore, we can conclude that we should wait for a discovery to answer the question.

The needs of human nature are logical.

But considering the nature of God, we realize that we should expect the same from Him.

To reveal itself to man is also a logical thing. Every being

Intelligence is concerned with connecting with others and introducing oneself to others.

Therefore, it is logical to assume that the person of God also desires to know himself.

How strange it is when we read in the Bible that man is made in the image of God.

Created and wanting a connection with God. Surely, God is merciful to the needs of creatures.

Introduction 4


It itself, especially the need it has planted in the human institution, shows its reaction.

If we have faith, what we expect is a revelation from God.

Given the nature of man and God, is such a revelation possible? Is it?

God, who is outside this world, is an infinite and eternal being, and can

How can a human being, a finite and mortal being, establish communication?

Some believe that we can only recognize a being that is our own,

And so we cannot know a God who is completely different from us. We must

Let us affirm that the God introduced in the Bible is a unique being.

The prophet Isaiah described God this way: "To whom then will you compare me, that I may

"Shall I be equal to Him?" (25:40) But such a God, with all his infinite differences,

The image of God has been revealed, who created man in his own image. Genesis

(26:1)

This divine likeness includes the capacity of man to have a personal relationship with God.

The first use of this gift is connection with the Creator. The glorification of God and then

Limiting his power to create a being that can communicate with him,

It is completely pointless. He who gave us eyes to see, has given us ears to hear.

He has given us the ability to hear and understand, and he can certainly use such tools to control himself.

We are revealed.


Tools for Discovering God

Since God is the God of the entire universe and the Preserver of His creations, only nature

It is a testimony to His existence, because God is seen in everything. Therefore

Introduction 5


The Bible has revealed God in various ways, and usually in two ways.

An important way to show God's revelation is to use:


                                        (1) general revelation and (2) special revelation
Public revelation refers to a revelation that everyone has always seen.

They do. Another type of special revelation is the revelation that God gives at specific times.

This classification is sometimes referred to in terms of "natural" discovery.

and "supernatural" and is assumed to be a public revelation through

Natural phenomena and special discoveries occur through the intervention of nature.

The main difference between these two discoveries is seen in the goals of each of them. Berkhof

The theologian Berkhof says about this:

General revelation has its roots in creation, which has addressed human reason.

To know his creation and God and benefit from his partnership. Revelation

It is rooted in God's plan of forgiveness and addresses man as a sinner.

Data, sinners who can only be saved through faith, despite the burden of sins that are upon them

They want to be accepted and blessed, and to be in the service of achieving the goals that

God created them for those purposes.) Louis Berkhof - Theology

Cinematic (Grand Rapids: WM. B.Eerdmans-1941. P.37


                                                                    General revelation

(1) Types of General Revelation - As we said before, God reveals Himself through all

He reveals His creations. This revelation is available to everyone and

Introduction 6


It can be attained in two main ways, namely the essence of the universe and the essence of man.

Long Fellow wrote, "Nature is the revelation of God, and art is

"The Discovery of Man." Even though man's actions are an expression of his abilities and power,

It also shows the attributes of God. The psalmist sings: "The heavens are the glory of God."

"He declares the glory of God, and the firmament declares the work of his hands." (1:19)

It is the true essence of God that has been manifested. It is the manifestation of His attributes and characteristics.

Paul wrote in his letter to the Romans that God's attributes are revealed through nature.

It has been revealed. And in relation to those who have not received a special revelation

He writes:

For that which may be known of God is manifest in them; for God hath shewed it unto them.

He has appeared because the invisible things of him, namely, his eternal power and divinity, have been clearly seen.

During His creation, the world is understood and seen through His works, so that He

There is no excuse. For although they knew God, they glorified him as God and gave thanks.

They did not, but were lost in their own imaginations, their unintelligible hearts were dark.

(Romans 1:19-21)


In this way, God has revealed His "eternal power" and "divinity" in His creation.

This essence refers to the qualities that qualify Him as God and worthy of worship.

It shows that although God is not, as some religions say, a part of

It is not nature, and although it is invisible and cannot be seen with the natural eye, it is

Yet, in the works of His hands, it is so evident that no one can deny His existence.

To be denied.

Introduction 7


Richard Warmbrand, preacher and author, defines the story of the Russian couple.

Both are sculptors, and throughout their lives they have been taught that the divine

Does not exist:

Once we were working on building a statue of Stalin. While we were working, my wife asked me:

"My husband asked, 'What if we design the hands of this statue with four fingers and a thumb?'"

What if it doesn't have one? In that case, nothing can be done with this hand.

He can neither lift a hammer, nor a book, nor a piece of bread. Life without this

The little finger is very difficult. But now we want to ask who is the thumb?

Is it made up? We were both educated in the school of Marxism and we know that the sky is

and the earth stand on their own and were not created by God. But if God created the heavens

And He did not create the earth and only created sixty humans for this creation.

Small is commendable.

We thank Edison, Bell, and Stephenson for inventing the light bulb, the telephone, the railroad, and all that.

We will stop. But why shouldn't someone who created only one thumb,

Shouldn't we praise him? If Edison didn't have a thumb on his finger, he wouldn't have invented anything.

He couldn't invent. So I think there must be a God who put a thumb on a finger.

"Man has created, let us praise him."

Her husband angrily tells her, "Don't talk nonsense! You have learned that God is

There is none, and we don't know if a microphone is installed in this room or not, it's possible.

We are going to get into trouble. Think about it again so that you know that God is

"It does not exist, neither in heaven nor on earth!"

Introduction 8


The woman replied: "If there is an almighty God in heaven that our ancestors worshipped,

They had faith, as natural as we have six. One God.

The Almighty can do anything, and thus can create even the smallest things.

But if there is no one in the sky, I will take my turn from the heart of it.

"We praise the 'Nobody' who created us."
(Richard Warmbrand Tortured for Christ. London: Hodder and Stoughton,
(1967, p. 23)
Not only the existence of nature around us, but also the natural stages and processes of life, bear witness to

The being is God. God:

"Although he did not leave himself without a witness, he was doing good and from heaven

You have sent down rain and given fruitful crops, filling our hearts with food and joy.

"He was building" (Acts 17:14).


We usually imagine disasters and calamities from God's perspective, but the apostle of Christ

You say that natural benefits are a process of nature that we often call a law of nature,

It is a direct sign from God. For example, Jesus sees the hand of God in feeding

The birds of the air and the lilies of the field are at work (Matthew 6:26-30). When we look

Turning ourselves directly towards ourselves from the world around us, again a sign from God.

We find that this sign comes from the general personality of man and specifically from his spiritual nature.

It is man. Paul, while talking to the Athenian philosophers who believed in "an unknown god,"

They were praising all the man-made idols and referring to nature.

The person says:

Introduction 9


"For in him we live and move and have our being, as some of your poets say."

"They also said, 'We are his offspring'" (Acts 17:28-29).


In other words, if we are God's creatures, no matter how big we are,

He is greater than us, and that means he is a living being.

Centuries before Paul, the prophet Isaiah, against those who thought they could

They argued that they should go their own way, free from God:

"O you who are inferior and who make everything worse! Is the potter like clay or something made?"

Say about the maker, "He made me," or a picture say about its painter, "He made me."

"Does he not understand?" (Isaiah 16:29)

Beyond the capabilities and virtues of man, there is a sign of a greater creation, namely God.

It is hidden.

The highest revelation of God in the natural channel, in the conscience or spiritual nature of man,

In this channel, we not only see God as a powerful creator,

Rather, we see him as a spiritual lawgiver and judge. The nature of history

Man reveals the sense of truth and falsehood in man. The apostle Paul said:

"For when the Gentiles, which have not the law, do by nature the things of the law,

Arend, although they have no law, they are a law to themselves, because of them.

It appears that the practice of Sharia is written on their hearts and their consciences as well.

"It bears witness, and their thoughts either condemn or excuse each other."

(Romans 14:2-15)


Then the apostle Paul said that we have this knowledge of good and evil for judgment.

Introduction 10


We use others, but unfortunately such knowledge does not help us to do the work.

Let's do it right. And the result is:

"Therefore, O man who judges, whoever you are, you are inexcusable because of what you have done."

You judge others, you issue fatwas for yourself, because you, the one who judges, do the same things.

"You will do it" (Romans 1:2).


This sense of "ought and perhaps" led Professor Immanuel Kant to even deny

The authority of the Bible makes one believe in God. Similarly, C.S. Lewis, a professor of literature,

The English and probably the most famous defender of Christianity in recent times also testified that

Signs of spiritual laws outside of man prevent him from tending towards theism.

It has.

Some social scientists say that adherence to moral principles is in the conscience.

Humans are products of society, while the reality is that we can

We have learned some of the accepted principles of behavior from our parents or others,

Such learning is not the result of learning from a teacher and studying science.

That is, while there are significant differences in the moral codes of society,

There are also notable similarities at the fundamental levels. However, the test

The truth of the spiritual sense is not that we in practice bind others. The true revelation

Good and bad things are what we choose for ourselves. A thief may die.

Respect those around you, while stealing the property of others, but when the property

He is being robbed, he condemns theft. In the same way, a person who commits murder

He may be respected among those around him, but is there anyone

Introduction 11


Is it possible to feel that killing a close friend or oneself is a worthy act?

Despite this common argument, the feeling of good and bad, and the feeling of unhappiness that

When we violate some standards, it gives us a testimony of God's spirituality in

It is the institution of all men. Robert Browning writes: “Make me happy—you must be in

There must be someone who is ready to fulfill his commitment, but if there is a commitment, it must be

"It may be accepted, but who will accept it?"


2- Reflection of public revelation

So we saw God reveal Himself as God through general revelation.

He creates. He has His creative power and those fundamental characteristics that make Him God,

Characteristics that all humans should bow down to and obey.

It is revealed. In addition, he shows all people that

God is spiritual and just, and one day He will judge the world according to His own standards.

It will happen.

God's intention in revealing Himself to all people in these ways is to

People understand his works and seek him. The apostle Paul for the grace of philosophical attention

Athens is the true God, the creator of God (Acts 17:24), and the creator of the essence of God (Acts 17:25).

His dominion over history (verse 26) was indicated.

Paul referred to these works of God, saying that people should “ask God that

"Perhaps they will search for him and find him, though he is not far from each one of us" (verse 27).

In any case, the purpose of general revelation has been corrupted by sin. Where

The apostle Paul referred to man's knowledge of God (Romans 1:18-23) in the context of

Introduction 12


He referred to those who “suppose the truth to be in unrighteousness” (verse 18).

"For although they knew God, they glorified him as God and gave thanks to him, but

"They became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened" (verse 21).


According to the statements of the Apostle Paul, man wants his own philosophy and human ideas.

Make yourself the voice of God:

"They exchanged the truth of God for a lie and worshiped the creature instead of

"Who is blessed forever" (Romans 1:25).


In any case, the problem is not the way of thinking, but the will. Even from that

When sin entered the world through the temptation to become like God (Genesis 3:5).

Man has given up on surrendering to the only true God. Instead of relying on

To God, it is self-reliance. Based on this false foundation, man seeks

Philosophy is a convincing argument for life. But he never reaches the truth,

Because his attention is focused on the tools of public revelation, not on the knowledge of God and

Knowing all things from God's perspective. God says such individuals "claim to be wise"

"They [do] but become fools" (Romans 1:22).

Despite man's failure to hear God's voice and see His hand in revelation,

Generally, such a revelation has other benefits. Because all people actually know God from

They have been made known through public revelation, and are now without excuse before God (Romans 1:20).

They should have seen God, but they did not, because they did not want to see. This situation, that is,

Having no excuses, even more so than the fact that the person took others with them.

Introduction 13


Their own sense of good and evil, judging, has been revealed. If God pays attention to them

They focus on what they say to accuse others,

They realized that they should actually punish themselves for the mistake of living based on what they

They were trying what they thought was the truth, while the public revelation of the problem of sin

It does not solve, but it points to the need for salvation.

In addition to the fact that no human being is now without excuse before God, general revelation is essential in the survival of the

It is embedded in human culture and societies, and other religions also incorporate its principles into their societies.

They use the ideas of truth and falsehood, fairness and injustice, as a guarantee of the preservation of order.

Among the people and the pursuit are the source of this discovery. In short, the discovery of our public

It helps to reduce one's tendency to sin, create chaos, and cause corruption.

We try, and ultimately human nature inclines us to maintain order and civilization.

And finally, public revelation has a special effect on the gospel. The Apostle Paul

He knew that all humans are aware of the existence of God, and the sign of that is the transformation of God.

It was truly unknown to the gods (Acts 23:17).

So Paul introduces people to God using public revelation,

Just as he spoke to the Greek philosopher and pointed out that the knowledge of God

It is truly possible in Jesus Christ:

"God has overlooked the times of ignorance, but now he will judge all creation everywhere."

He commands them to repent. For He has appointed a day on which He will bring the quarter of the inhabited earth to destruction.

He will judge fairly the man who has been appointed and has given proof to everyone.

"That ye raised him from the dead" (Acts 17:30, 31).

Introduction 14


The need for public disclosure

Whereas God has revealed Himself through the universe and human nature.

But such a revelation, containing what God wants from man, is not

It is not for man to know himself and his will. God created man for himself.

He created man to share with his Creator. Adam and Eve were among all

The beauties of the Garden of Eden could see all the masterpieces of God's creation, but

To know the person of God, they needed to have direct conversation with Him. Therefore, God

First, He reveals Himself not only through His creation, but also directly through His Word.

Show.

Through the Word of God, man learns His will for his life.

Compassion for one's creation and one's own conscience, and without special guidance from God, never

He could not manage the Garden of Eden (Genesis 2:15) or fulfill God's other purposes for mankind.

To establish dominion over the earth (Genesis 26:1-28).

In order to test the level of Adam's obedience, God turned his attention to the tree.

He said to him, “Knowing good and evil” (Genesis 2:16-17).

Thus, public revelation through nature has, from the very beginning, been only a background.

It is for God's verbal communication with man.

Because sin has entered the world, man's greatest need is to find a way to

It is a liberation, it is here that nothing is made of public revelation. Nature, conscience and

History says that man has come to the conclusion that there is a God and that the world is

It is based on a moral law that no one can systematically violate.

Introduction 15


Live according to that spiritual law. But there is no way in nature or in human nature.

There is no solution to this problem.

The history of religions shows that when man does not receive a special revelation from God,

It does not provide a true understanding of sin. Religions have come up with a way to answer this question.

They have received, but without the special revelation that came through Christ, religious man and

The seeker of truth stops at the same stage of general discovery and does not reach the truth.

The result creates special ways to compensate for its shortcoming.

Religions that are based on general revelation are inevitably pragmatic.

There is no real salvation in them, but they are commitments. Without specific revelation, they are not based on

Through Christ's forgiveness, we will never be free from the burden of sin. Hymn

The Psalmist sings about this, “The heavens declare the glory of God” (1:19).

He adds: “The law of God is perfect, converting the soul” (7:19).

Special revelation, from the beginning of its creation, has not only pointed to facts that

There is no revelation of God in creation, but rather a human tendency to deny what is

General revelation has been revealed to him, he says. Until man comes to know it through personal contact with

Jesus Christ, who does not return to the presence of God, cannot see the world around him from his perspective.

God observes. Only God's enlightening work can open his eyes to reality.

Open the door. The psalm is a Syracusan who personally sees the glory of God in heaven.

(1:19) The godless astronauts also saw that heaven from their own perspective and as a result

They came to a different conclusion with the psalmist. John Calvin, a French theologian and reformer,

The "Book of Nature" accurately explains the need for special revelation for man and

Introduction 16


He writes:

Just as a person with visual impairment cannot read the most beautiful writing,

You see jumbled lines and can rarely make out two words from it.

Read, but can read all the lines with the help of glasses, the Holy Book

It is also like a lens that reflects incomplete and confusing information about God.

It enlightens our thinking.
   (Calvin Institutes of the Christian Religion, Philadelphia, The West
   ) Minster Press, 1960, 1, vi, 1
Special revelation is the complement of general revelation, and it also acquaints man with the divine.

They believe that it is the foundation and basis of all life. God uses His Word in specific circumstances.

It speaks in a special way for the needs of individuals. But if the universe is in all stages

Nature itself, God's creation and under God's sovereignty, should not be considered such a relationship.

It is meaningless.

Introduction 17




2

Special Discovery



Man's knowledge of God is dependent on God's generous revelation of Himself.

Until God reveals Himself, man will remain in darkness forever.

God has revealed Himself through the works of His hands. In addition, the book

The Bible declares that God reveals Himself in a clearer and more specific way throughout the ages.

History has revealed to its creator the nature and tools of this discovery, the contradictions

And it has sparked much debate.

Some theologians say that God reveals Himself through His great works in

History has shown, not in His Word. Others also look to God's personal revelation in

They point to Christ, not to his works, since the Bible calls Christ the Word of God.

These people say that the words of the Bible cannot be called the Word (John 1:1).

They say that Christ is much more than just handwritten words.

It is man. These conflicting teachings in the church today require us to focus our attention on

Let's consider what the Bible says about God's special revelation.

Introduction 18


Different methods of discovery

The writer of Hebrews correctly describes the original process of God's special revelation in this

The words have been expressed:

"God, who in the past spoke to us in various ways and through various prophets,

He spoke to our fathers, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son,

"He appointed him heir of all things, and through him he created the worlds" (Hebrews

1:1 (2)


These words tell us that special revelations occur at specific times in history.

Various methods and ultimately the coming of the Son of God have taken place. Now we come to

We will discuss the last and most important of these discovery methods.

1- The manifestation of God in human form - The word "theophany" consists of two phrases:

It is derived from the Greek (Theos) meaning "God" and (Phaino) meaning "to reveal".

Therefore, theophany means the appearance of God. This method of revelation in the Bible,

It is the most prominent type of discovery.

God, in revealing Himself, has taken on various forms. In one

The location, where Abraham said to the three men who arrived at the entrance of his tent and to them

He welcomed them and made them welcome. God made Himself visible. Two of the three

One was an angel, but the third was God himself (Genesis 22:18; 24, 19).

See also the man who wrestled with Jacob in Genesis 24:32 and

(30) In another instance, God was in the midst of a burning bush with fire that was not consumed, with

Moses spoke. The Bible tells us that God appeared to specific people at times.

Introduction 19


(cf. Genesis 7:12; 1:17, 2:26).

In any case, God has often appeared as an "angel of the Lord."

Many verses make it clear that this angel is a higher being than

Angels are common. He told Jacob that he was God (Genesis 11:31-13), and in

Other occasions have also clearly called themselves God (Genesis 13:16; Judges

(21:13-22) Since the New Testament tells us that the Son of God has manifested

(John 1:18) And this particular angel has never appeared since Jesus came,

Many Bible students believe that the angel was not a person.

Is there anything other than the Son Himself, before He appeared in Bethlehem in the flesh and human nature?

It will be.

In one sense, the coming of Christ in human flesh was also a type of manifestation, but different from

Other manifestations. In the remaining manifestations, God has appeared in a different form, but in the birth

Jesus, God the Son, took on pure human nature.

2- Dreams and visions - Although dreams do not play a significant role in revelation, they

On special occasions, especially in the books of Revelation and Daniel, the Word of God

It has been reported that a famous example of this can be found in Jacob's dream of climbing the ladder from the

The heavens had come down to the earth, they were going up (Genesis 12:28-16) and Joseph's dreams in

Relating to his dominion over his brothers (Genesis 37:5-7, 9) and Solomon's dream

(1 Kings 5:3) and Joseph, the husband of Mary (Matthew 1:20; 13:2, 19)

In these dreams, a revelation from God has reached the dreamers.

Seeing dreams and visions is not limited to God's people. Pharaoh and Nebuchadnezzar also had dreams.

Introduction 20


They had dreams related to important events that affected the future and the course of history.

They were (Genesis 1:41; Daniel 3:2).

In any case, in both cases, the interpretation of dreams by the dreamer is

They believed that the people were God.

Another case that is very close to sleep, but plays a more important role in discovery

It is dreams. The writings of the prophets are full of dream reports from Susi.

God. While these dreams are sometimes visual and sometimes verbal,

Ezekiel clearly saw the temple in Jerusalem in a dream (Ezekiel 3:8).

Now the prophet Amos spoke concerning Israel (Amos 1:1).

Sometimes those who were called "prophets" would reveal the truths they wanted to convey in the form of

Images and words are revealed to them, in ways we do not truly understand,

They declared. Perhaps merely as a divine symbol in the mind of the recipient that understanding

They had been given everything they needed.

3- Direct Communication - We often read in the Bible that God communicates directly with man.

The testimony of the prophets is that "God said," the word of the Lord is upon

"I came" and "Thus saith the Lord." We fully understand this type of conversation.

We don't know. It seems that such conversations were different. In some cases,

The voice of God has been heard, including when Paul hears a voice from heaven.

(Acts 4:9) and possibly Samuel (1 Samuel 1). In other conversational passages

Internally, such as when we are with God in prayer, such as when the Holy Spirit came to Peter.

He spoke and said, “Three men are seeking you.” (Acts 19:10) Or his orders to

Introduction 21


The church sent out Barnabas and Saul (Acts 2:13). This revelation is like a revelation.

It is what Paul received from Christ in the Arabian Desert (Galatians 1:11-17).

But the unique way of hearing God's direct speech in conversation with Moses

We see. In Exodus 11:33, we read, "The Lord spoke to Moses face to face,

Like a person who speaks to his friend, "When Miriam and Aaron were in the authority of Moses,

questioned, God confirmed the exclusive position of Moses. God himself

It was revealed to the prophets of that time through dreams and visions, but in the case of Moses,

He spoke to him face to face (Numbers 12:6-8).

4- Angels - Every now and then we read that God uses angels to convey His revelations.

Angels have been used. These angels are used to convey God's revelation,

They appeared especially whenever God did new things. For example, the law

It was given to Moses through angels (Galatians 3:19 and Acts 7:53).

The angels announced the good news of the Savior's birth to the shepherds who were nearby.

They were in Bethlehem, they announced (Luke 2:10, 13). One of the most interesting examples of

The revelation is by an angel to Daniel. God answered Daniel's prayer twice.

He answered Israel by sending a message through an angel. One of those angels

It was Gabriel (Daniel 20:9-21; 10:10-21). While the existence of angels is a wonder

It inspires people, but it is clear that they are messengers, not speakers of the Word. Peter

The apostle says that even angels are eager to “look into” the gospel message (1 Cor.

                                                                     Peter (1:12

5- Miracles - When God directly communicates His Word to man,

Introduction 22


He often showed signs of His presence through miracles. Our purpose is to

Miracles refer to something completely different from ordinary events. Basically, God creates the universe.

It operates according to what we call natural laws. The miracle of time happens.

It seems that God wants to use it in a surprising way to reveal Himself.

The Bible's account of miracles indicates that they were inspired. Peter

Referring to Jesus’ miracles, he called them “powers, wonders, and signs” (Acts 2:22).

The phrases do not refer to three different types of work, but rather to one worker, one of the three.

The first word, "power," refers to an action that results from the demonstration of power. The word "power"

The Greek for it is dunamis from which we derive the word Dynamite. From this

Some of these things have been called strange because of their strange nature. The word

"Verses" directly refer to their purpose as a statement of revelatory events. Verses in

The Bible is a book that draws our attention to something.

According to the prophecies, the Messiah would come and miracles would be performed as a sign of his Messiahship,

He will show us a sign. For this reason the Jews were constantly asking Jesus, "What sign will you show us?"

"Do you see?" (John 2:18; Matthew 12:38; Mark 1:16). The miracle of the healing of the paralyzed man.

Chapter Two (Expressing these three aspects of the miracle) is the dynamic power in the healing of the paralyzed man.

Suddenly he arose from his bed, and was healed (verse 12). The effect of this miracle was

"And they were all amazed, and glorified God, saying, We have never seen anything like this."

"We were" (verse 12). But Jesus spoke the final miracle: "But until

"...that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins" (verse

(10)

Introduction 23


Such power naturally belongs to God. Therefore, miracles are revelations of the divinity.

They were our God.

Miracles are important in two ways: First, they are signs.

They actually have evidence that a discovery has occurred. They draw our attention to this.

They point out the truth that God's hand is at work. Second, that miracles are a part of

They reveal the nature of God's power and the purpose of performing miracles.

Although in some cases, observing God's power over nature, as in

We read about the turning of water into wine (John chapter 2) less often than other things.

- because most of the signs indicate God's power and victory over sin and its effects -

Healing the sick and paralyzed, and restoring sight to the blind, all point to victory.

God is above sin. The raising of Lazarus and others by Jesus is a demonstration of this truth.

It is that the ultimate power of sin and death, which are the enemies of man, are defeated by the power of God.

It has happened.

While miracles are a type of revelation, their full significance can only be understood

Through the Word of God, he understood, in the order of miracles and signs from the One who delivers the Word,

The apostle Paul wrote that miracles are a testimony to the nature of Christ,

The miracles confirm the value of his nature and his word, based on the declaration of God's will.

The apostle Paul also mentioned the miracles that God performed through Christ.

This is a sign that he is a true “apostle” (2 Corinthians 12:12).

Miracles are the credentials and proof that the word of Jesus has the value and authority of the Word.

It is God.

Introduction 24


6- Jesus Christ, the author of the Epistle to the Hebrews, writes: “In these last days

“[God] has spoken to us through his Son” (Hebrews 2:1). In this revelation

"God reaches His peak." Various parts of God's words that were previously revealed in "the ways of the

"It was revealed that there were only parts of the sign that someone was coming," meaning the secret

"In Christ are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge" (Colossians 3:2).

We have received new information from God regarding the coming of Christ, indicating that He Himself

has revealed in a different way. Christ himself is the revelation of God. Christ

God is in the flesh, that is, God is in human form. The more one knows, the more one

A person is one thing, and a personal meeting with him is something else that can never be compared to

They are not each other.

The world encountered God himself in Jesus Christ. John writes, “God never

No one has seen [His] only Son, He has declared Him” (John 1:18).

It should not be interpreted as meaning that Jesus was merely a great teacher among the teachers of the past.

The truths were divine. He defined God as he saw Him, even in the form of an angel.

Who said to Philip, "Have I been with you so long, Philip, and yet you do not know me?"

(John 9:14) He could say this because “in him all things are fleshly.”

“The fullness of the Godhead dwells in him,” meaning that God is in him in all his fullness (Colossians 2:9).

The revelation of God in Christ was through the teachings he gave to others. People followed him.

They recognized Him as the teacher sent by God (John 3:2). He was the Word.

He explained God in a way that no one had ever explained before. But in addition to

Interpreting the Word of God, God spoke to people in the person and works of Jesus. This speech

Introduction 25


It reached its peak in the crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus. God is infinite love.

Himself in the sacrifice of His only Son, and also His infinite holiness and justice in

The provision of a sacrifice for sin was shown. The message of forgiveness was completed and the promise of eternal life was given.

It was confirmed by the resurrection of the Son of God from the dead.

Jesus is not just the pinnacle of revelation, he is the center of revelation. The Bible is dedicated to him.

He has testified (John 5:39), as the prophets before him and the apostles after him have testified.

They were inspired by the Holy Spirit, who is the Spirit of Christ (1 Peter 1:11; Revelation 19:10).

7- Inspiration - Another and Final Type of Revelation in the Biblical View of Events

Most parts of the Bible contain revelations in various forms that

We have recently mentioned the bodies. In the Holy Book of Dreams and Visions, the report

They were written down, the direct words of God addressed to the prophets. However, the writing of the book

The sacred, in turn, is a type of addition to revelation. This type of revelation is called "inspiration."

The nature of this discovery becomes clear when it is compared with other types of

Let's compare Revelations. When God spoke directly to man, the listeners

They were aware of the validity of his word. When dreams and visions occurred, the seers in

The basis of the passive recipients of God's message was. When God gave the Ten Commandments with his finger,

He wrote on the stone tablets himself. Moses could do nothing except

Bring it to the people.

On the other hand, those who are completely ignorant of the power of the revelations that God has given them

People like the Apostle Paul, without having such information, were aware of

They spoke and wrote their epistles. For example, in the writings of Paul, there are sentences

Introduction 26


Such as "the word that the Lord gave me" and "the Lord says" are not found. But the Spirit

God worked in his conscience and made him a discoverer of the truth. This is evident from the writings of Paul.

He used his own thoughts and feelings to express the truth of God. With this

The presence of the Spirit of God so controlled him that what he wrote was exactly what he meant.

They were the words that God wanted to bring to the surface. We might say that in this type of revelation, God and

Humans have become linguists, and this is close to the same connection that exists between God and

It was Christ. This kind of revelation is quite natural, first in the New Testament, when

The Spirit of God dwells in the heart of man, and it happens. According to the type of revelation in the covenant

New and considering its superiority over other discoveries, we observe that

A kind of fundamental progress in the types of discoveries in the history of discovery, inspired by

All methods of revelation other than the revelation unique to the person of Christ can be

He summarized three basic forms: the manifestation of God, direct communication with prophecy, and inspiration in the present.

That these three types of revelation have been fulfilled in all ages from the time of Moses to Christ,

First the phenomenon of appearance, then prophecy, and finally inspiration. Considering the nature of these forms

Discovery, aimed at progressing from partial external discoveries to internal discoveries in order to

We become more intimately connected. This clearly demonstrates God's perfect relationship with us.

It is man. Man was separated from God in the Garden of Eden as a result of committing sin. But God is man.

in Christ and the forgiveness of the cross; brought to himself and one day completely in the midst

"Man will dwell": Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them.

"And it was revealed" (Revelation 3:21). Despite these differences in the types of revelation, the Bible distinguishes between

In terms of inspirational value, there is no consensus between them.

Introduction 27


Actions and words

From the discussion of the various types of God's special revelation, it follows that He also

It uses both actions and speech to reveal itself. In fact, all methods of

The above can be classified under these two headings. Today, many of

Theologians deny that God communicates with humans through speech, but rather

They mostly point to God's mighty acts in history, but deny every word of God.

God, including the Holy Bible, and do not consider it the Word of God. Based on this

God's vision has worked, and then with His Spirit He has opened the eyes of certain individuals.

It is open to understanding things about the nature and will of God in His actions. But

Opening the eyes to the reality of direct revelation of the truth from God to man,

It wasn't.

In this case, we can look at the crucifixion of Jesus Christ as an example.

For the Jews who witnessed the crucifixion of many criminals outside

There were walls of Jerusalem, and Jesus was crucified, because he was one of them. But God

It enlightened the minds of certain elect to witness the crucifixion of Christ, an act

It is for the salvation of man. However, the words of these commentators regarding the cross

The coming of Christ should not be considered the word of God. They are the slippery words of man.

They are. One of the accepted views in this regard is as follows:

"There is no such thing as revealed truth. There are revealed truths that

The results of the imagination are true of discovery, but they are not directly revealed.

Denial that the contents of the Bible are not inspired by God, and affirmation that in

Introduction 28


Experience and ultimate analysis lead to the enlightenment of human thought and its judgment and evaluation.

Speeches criticized by teachers should, as a rule, reflect the truth in God's works.

In response to this idea, the Bible has emphasized this truth time and time again.

(Hebrews 1:1) The prophets announced that the word of God had been revealed.

They received and often began their message with the phrase "Lord,

He says, "If the expression of this sentence had resulted from the clarification of their thoughts in interpretation,

It was not true. The apostle Paul specifically declared that what he said was true.

“It is the word of God” that you hear from Him, not “the word of men” (1 Thessalonians 2:13).

Beyond that, there is a true faith in the style of Abraham, faith in the "Word" of God.

The Bible says many times that Abraham's faith was counted to him as righteousness.

(Romans 3:4; Galatians 6:3; James 2:23; Genesis 6:15)

Abraham, along with several other people, are included in the category of heroes of faith, because

They “received the promise of God” and believed it (Hebrews 11:33-39).

But in the end, what can we say about the words of the Son of God? He confirmed

He showed that his teachings were not of his own making, but had their roots in heaven and God the Father (cf.

"What I say, I speak just as the Father told me" (John 7:16, 8:28).

(John 12:50) If Jesus’ words are not a revelation from God, understanding such statements is indeed

It will be difficult.

When we believe the Bible's claim that God revealed the truth through the "Word"

He declares, let us think, we come to the conclusion that there is no other way that we can

We can understand the meaning of God's actions and will for ourselves. Many testimonies

Introduction 29


In the Exodus from Egypt and the captivity of Israel in Babylon and the death of Christ and His empty tomb.

They have that they are not revealed by God except through true interpretation, but only their own judgment.

We do and we never fully understand those testimonies.

The Bible says that God has revealed to us the meaning of His works.

Sometimes such revelations come through prophecy, before the event, including:

The coming of the Holy Spirit on the Day of Pentecost, which Christ received before His ascension into heaven.

(Acts 5:1) Sometimes in the present tense, as when

Angels announced the birth of Jesus to the shepherds (Luke 2:8, 9). In other interpretations,

It comes after the event. The message of the apostles is nothing less than a complete interpretation of the great events of the cross and

The resurrection is not a savior.

Then we must point out the importance of words in communication, while most people

Deafness is preferred over blindness, but in reality a blind person is less intelligent than a deaf person.

The emotional point of view is painful. The reason for this is the importance of using words in communication. Bernard

Rome writes:

A warm connection in life is the result of conversation, and a deaf person is strengthened by this.

It is deprived. A silent world is much more tragic than a dark world.

Radio programs are entertaining, but television programs, without sound, are completely

They are incomprehensible.

In life, just like in plays, it is the words that convey meaning,

It is words that are the elements of communication, and it is words that are the beginning of a warm relationship.

They are friendly.

Introduction 30


(B. Ramm, Special Revelation and The Word of God.) (Grand Rapids: WM.

Eerdmans, 1971), p. 77.




According to the Lord's words, the essence of our eternal life is the knowledge of God. (John

(3:17) The Greek word for knowledge expresses a personal, experiential relationship. If God

He had not found a way to communicate with us through his words, not only the best means of communication with

His creature would be ignored, but our personal contact with him would be severely limited.


Personal speeches and letters

The Swiss theologian Karl Barth said, "The equality of the Word of God with the Son

God makes any other hypothesis in relation to the Word of God fundamentally impossible.

In this writing he introduces another common objection to the verbal revelation of God,

He makes and says that a practical view of a person is more important than words, and this view

It conveys that God has revealed himself personally in Christ. Christ is the Word of God.

(John 1:1) Therefore, it is said that the words of the Bible are the words of God.

It is impossible. In fact, those who believe that the words of the Bible are the words of God

It is clear that they are using the Bible instead of the

The Word, or the Son of God, stands.

We must acknowledge that some people have read the Bible without

They focus on following the living Word that the Bible speaks of. This was

The problem with many of the Jews who rejected Jesus was that they had studied the Bible and

They believed that the Bible showed the way to salvation, but Jesus said...

Introduction 31


“Search the scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life;

And they are they which testify of me. And ye will not come unto me, until ye have life.

"Find" (John 5:39-40).


This grave error is also being made today by those who call themselves "believers in the Book."

They are called "holy," and those who know everything about the truth, but

Those who do not have a living relationship with Christ, who is the absolute truth, will be fulfilled. Jesus

He said: "He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him."

(John 5:23)

But if this separation is wrong, then the opposite separation that is often practiced today

It is suggested that this is wrong. According to the Bible, there is no real separation.

There is no difference between written words and personal words. When we talk to others, we

It is through words that we can recognize them. It is through words that you

You can understand the other party's inner thoughts and feelings. In fact, these words

It is they who can create a bridge of communication between the speaker and the listener. Therefore, God

The living God, who came into this world in the person of his Son, Jesus Christ, has filled our hearts and minds with

Through language or words - the Word of God - revealed to man, based on statements

The apostle Peter, ultimately this spirit of Christ, was the writer of the words in the Old Testament (1 Cor.

                                                                     Peter (1:11

It was this Spirit that God promised to come and inspired his teachings.

To the New Testament writers, it continues (John 12:16-15).

In short, the words of the Bible are the words of Christ. To treat the words with disrespect

Introduction 32


The letter means a lack of respect for its writer. Because the Bible speaks

It is Christ and has the same divine personality. These words are living (Hebrews 4:12).

It is real (Psalm 8:19; 42:19; John 17:17) and eternal (Psalm 119:89).

Introduction 33




3

The uniqueness of the Bible



The Bible, including the Old and New Testaments, claims to be God's special revelation.

It is. But is the claim true?

Many religions also believe that their Bible is a revelation from God.

For example, Muslims believe that the Quran is inspired by God. They say that Gabriel

The angel appeared to Muhammad. Similarly, Mormons say that

Joseph Smith received direct revelation from God and wrote the Book of Mormon.

Other religions also have their own holy books that they claim to be

They are the revelation of God.

Amidst all these claims of revelation, we hope to be able to discover the true revelation of God.

Let's find out.

If we are to hear the voice of God, His word is a unique manifestation of Him.

If we compare the Bible with other books that claim to be revealed, notice.

We become convinced that the Bible bears precisely the marks of a supernatural book.

Introduction 34


Teachings of the Bible

When we come face to face with the canonical teachings of the Bible, we realize that

No human being or group could have written it. Not only the design and grandeur

The Bible is beyond human capabilities, but rather expresses a truth beyond thought.

It is human.

All the messages of the Bible are properly conveyed through the words of God through Isaiah.

The Prophet has made it clear:

"My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways...for as

The sky is higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts.

"It is higher than you think" (Isaiah 8:55-9).

1- The concept of God: The Bible is focused on God from beginning to end.

God's vision in the Bible is given in this verse: "O Lord of glory and might,

And the glory and the power and the majesty are yours, for whatever is in the heavens and on the earth belongs to you.

"It is you. And yours, O Lord, is the kingdom, and you are exalted above all."

(1 Chronicles 11:29) The Lord, the God of might, is the Almighty, the Judge of the universe, and

He accomplishes everything for His own glory. Beside this powerful image of

"God, He is holy, merciful, and gracious." God is good to all, and His mercies are

He is over all his works” (Psalm 145:9). God in his power, holiness, and justice, and

The realm of infinite love has a plan for sinful man. The nature of God

He is so mysterious that no human can fully understand him. History

Man has shown that humans worship many gods (polytheism) or one God.

Introduction 35


(Monotheism). But the Bible teaches that God is unique to the individual.

It introduces the One who is manifested simultaneously in three personalities - Father, Son, and

The Holy Spirit. This threefold person of God, as some say, contradicts reason.

There are not three Gods, but one divine being who existed from eternity.

Three states or persons have been manifested. While such contradictory ideas are common sense,

It is not human, but it is not man-made, but a revelation from God.

2- The concept of Christ: Similarly, no human being is like Christ in any revelation.

There is no other. He is born of a virgin, at the height of humiliation. Despite this existence

He is the eternal Son of God. He is the Creator of all creation, yet He died on the cross.

He went to be killed by man. JND, a researcher who is able to compare religions with

Another way is to recognize the unique place of the person of Christ among all human religions.

It is stated:

Other religions may and do believe in a god or gods who are one or

Manifested several times in human form or other divine manifestations from one individual to another.

But only Christianity has the audacity to claim that there is an existence that is in

He is omnipresent, omniscient, and transcendent over all existence.

It is unique to the individual among His creatures, not only through its appearance in man, but

Practically by taking on a body, not by living and teaching, but practically by dying, as a mortal

Lives, for humanity and for our salvation, and with the seal of truth and sufficiency.

His mediation, through his resurrection from the dead.
(J.N.D Anderson, Christianity and Comparative Religion, Downers Grove,

ILL, Inter Varsity Press, 1970, P.51).

Introduction 36




Not only is Christ and the nature of Christ rooted in God, but His life is unique.

He lived on earth as an ordinary human being and in human conditions, but

At the same time, he claimed to have committed no sin (John 8:46). He never needed

He did not apologize or ask for forgiveness for the things he had done.

Religious leaders are preachers, teaching the way of life as they have found it.

But Christ claimed to be the way of life (John 6:14). None of the historical founders

Religions did not claim to be the only God. Jesus' contemporaries testified that he was

He spoke with authority, as no other man spoke (John 7:46).

He never asks others for permission or advice to speak. Despite this, he

His perfection never became arrogant or showed holiness, separating himself from others.

He did not know. How could the writers of the Bible have written this if they had not received special revelation from God?

Could they have painted such a picture of Christ? The design of such a picture of

Christ testifies through the writers of the Gospel that they were inspired.

It is enough for a person to follow the trend by reading the religious myths of various tribes.

It is human nature to embellish the truth with imaginary images. Even non-fiction writings

The Bible in relation to Jesus, from his childhood and adolescence to his school education

He, his mastery of the alphabet, his admiration for his father and mother, and his games with his friends are all miracles of his speech.

They said.

According to these false gospels, when Jesus was 15 years old, he was baptized on the Sabbath.

He made twelve sparrows from clay, and when his father Joseph asked him the reason for such a thing,

Introduction 37


The holy day asks, Jesus claps his hands and the sparrows of the mud,

The Jikjikkanans are flying! The goal of these writers in writing such nonsense is not

Entertaining the readers, but also glorifying God and magnifying Christ and showing

His miracles are even in his childhood.


The Bible's definition of man
When we look at the image of man from the perspective of the Bible, we inevitably ask,

Who painted such a picture of man in the Bible? Human tendency

It is its own exaltation, more than it should be, or its own destruction, more than it should be.

What should be. The Dutch scholar Erasmus once said, "Man is man."

"God willing and the wolf willing."

On the other hand, philosophers and theologians often elevate man to the level of a god.

The ancient Greek philosopher Heraclitus said, "Gods, mortal men, and

"Men are mortal gods." Long after the German philosopher Georg Hegel

"The Unconditional Divinity" of all humans and theologians. From the divine flames in

Humans have spoken of their need to be ignited. Under the final influence of natural evolution,

Philosophers described humans as noble animals. Based on the view of B.F.

Skinner, the psychologist, said that man is more than a complex organ whose actions are governed by

It is not in control of its own environment, which is more like a dog that has been trained.

React to specific actions.

The greatness of man, the freedom of man, the creativity of man, and the ability of man, surpass

The whole world is confirmed by his own soul and at the same time as

Introduction 38


An earthly being is limited to the natural environment, and this is the case with humans.

His identity has wandered. Only the Bible reveals the true nature of man.

It shows that the biggest question every human being asks is: Who am I? Where did I come from?

What is the purpose of this life? The Bible has answered all these questions.

Man is a being created from the dust of the ground (Genesis 2:7).

He is formed in the image of God. He belongs to this world and therefore

He must work in this earthly house to make ends meet. But within the created

It is necessary to be in touch with God, so it cannot rely solely on nature.

The problem of human identity is not only his nature, but his problem is sin. If man

He is like God, why doesn't he act like God? The Bible answers this question.

It is written in a way that we would not expect from human writers. Based on the Bible

The greatness of man has been tarnished by sin, a sin that man has committed against

He is responsible. Surely man is responsible for his own failure to do what he should do.

It recognizes. Without a divine revelation, man would have these shortcomings due to ignorance.

Or, according to the evolutionary hypothesis, it defines a sign of the animal's self.

Interpretations are a form of partisanship and abdication of responsibility, not a declaration of rebellion.

Will towards God. In this way, sin becomes a painful product of the evolved principle.

It is.

However, the Bible declares that man is responsible for sinning, as

A view that affirms the greatness of human freedom of action and deviation from human behavior. Yes!

Man is proud, but he has fallen. This is the condition of man, the condition that

Introduction 39


The Bible explicitly refers to the body.

Even heroes of faith, who have not committed major sins, cannot deny

Be your own weakness. Great men of faith also, in relation to God's salvation, are sinners.

Therefore, the Bible's image of man is a transcendental image of him.


The Concept of Salvation in the Bible
When we look at the concept of salvation in the Bible, we notice a unique reference to

We become a divine source. Various means of salvation are found in world religions.

They are, but with a fundamental difference: either salvation is earned through works or it is earned through

The grace of God. Most world religions believe in earning salvation through works, so

Which we see in the following story about an Indian person:

After crossing the river, we entered a rocky path with short mud walls.

And the mustard bushes were surrounded, the air was getting hot. After a short while

We came upon a young man lying sprawled on the ground, apparently in some kind of coma.

Normesh was busy. He stood up and stretched out his left hand as far as he could.

He picked up a stone from a small pile of stones, rolled to the other side, and the stone

He placed it in his right hand, then he stretched his right hand as far as it could go.

Pull to the right and move that stone to the similar pile of stones to the right.

He had an appointment, he was giving an appointment. Dr. Govindam told me that this young man, Madam,

He is engaged in such work to gain merit, he cannot speak. In this

Rescue operation! 108 pieces of sand should have been removed from the rock mass on the left.

He had it, he had it, and he had to move it to the right, and each time he had to turn his body to the right.

Introduction 40


He stretched out his hand as far as he could to pick up a pebble, and so on.

Place it on the other side. After the veins have gathered on the right side, then

He does the same thing again from right to left. This vow and work of salvation and

How long does meritocracy last? A week - maybe months! After passing through

That scene, the witnesses, we reached an elderly woman. I heard Dr. Govindam tell us

He said that the woman probably made a vow to gain merit for her husband in the other world.

A few weeks later, we found him a few kilometers away from the original location.

We saw him busy with that work. It seemed like he was there every week.

He shifts himself twenty meters and continues the tiring work of moving the veins.

Gives.
(K. Klosterm air, Hindu and Christian in Verindabam, London: SCM Press,

(1969, p. 20 ff.)




Most non-Christian religions, whether through the Hinduism method of achieving justice, or with

The Buddhist Eightfold Path, or "Middle Way," and the Muslim fasting and prayer, are in harmony.

They seek salvation through works. The natural inclination of man to attain salvation in this

It is a common belief that one can enter the world by focusing on doing good deeds.

Heaven became. However, some religions have their own savior gods who

Believers offer their own salvation. The widespread practice of Buddhism, with all its

The sequel in Japan is based on the life story of a person named Amita, who

He had accumulated the qualities that would bind those who sincerely trusted him.

Introduction 41


and repeat to themselves the phrase "Hail to Amitabha Buddha" in the form of a word, and

Sing the following song, in heaven, about them.

We believe in the covenant of Amitabha.

Which leads us to eternity.

For His sake and for His great grace.

The glorious light is always yours.

     (H.D. Lewis and R.L. Slater, World Religions, London: C.A. Watts,

     ) 1969, P. 78.

The concept of savior gods was very popular in ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia.

But we must be careful that even with a true faith in the God who saves

Forgive me, I need to earn His grace and salvation again, I have completed a series of actions.

Furthermore, they have no concept of salvation in relation to the obvious truth of sin.

People, they didn't. How much salvation is offered in the Bible varies! Tendencies

Human nature has no place in the teaching of the Bible for acquiring competence, all

The merit and glory belong to God. In these religions, the historical truth of sin is completely ignored.

Salvation is the fruit of God's infinite love and infinite holiness. The God of salvation,

Unlike the mythical savior gods of world religions, the roots of death are in the historical event of death.

And the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Such salvation is truly beyond human thought and invention.

The apostle Paul, a strict Pharisee who believed in salvation by works,

Introduction 42


Bod, with all boldness, expressed the supernatural dimension of God's salvation in these words:


“For God has imprisoned all in disobedience, that He may have mercy on all.” Deep Thoughts

The sovereignty, wisdom, and knowledge of God! How far removed from the glory are His decrees and His commandments!

"His ways are unsearchable!" (Romans 11:32-33)


Prophetic signs
This is unique to the uniqueness of the Bible, especially with the signs of

The supernatural nature of his prophecies is revealed. People, both in the past and in the future,

Today, people have always sought to understand future events. Fortune tellers, astrologers, mediums

(Through the manifestation of spirits), fortune tellers and soothsayers, of what would happen in the future

They prophesied. But none of their actions could be compared to the prophecies of

The (prophecies of) the Bible are not. The God of the Bible through the prophet Isaiah,

He challenged the false gods and declared the future, "what has happened."

It will be possible to bring it near, declare to us... and the things that will happen after this event.

“You will declare, that we may know that you are gods” (Isaiah 41:22, 23). God declares

"He does what false gods cannot do: things that

I have declared the first from of old, and they went forth from my mouth, declaring them, and they came to pass.

"I have done it, and it came to pass" (Isaiah 3:48).

There are certainly people who can make predictions outside of the Bible.

The wonders are beyond the human mind. But none can compare to

They are not biblical prophets. Some of these people predicted specific events.

Introduction 43


They have done, which have happened in the near future. But which prophet, or prophets, are like

The prophets of the Bible describe numerous events related to nations, people, cities, and individuals.

Have they made a prediction that has been postponed even hundreds and thousands of years?

Which prophets, besides the prophets of the Bible, made prophecies that all of them fulfilled?

Have they happened in history? The Bible has the audacity to label them "lies"

He called out to the prophets whose prophecies had not come true (Deuteronomy 20:18-22).

Only the Bible is based on such a standard. A prime example of that is the prophetic passages in

The Bible is full of prophecies about the nation of Israel. Some of these prophecies,

Hundreds of years before the event, they were expressed, including captivity in another land (Egypt)

For 400 years (Genesis 13:15-16), the kings of Judah (Genesis 10:49) were divided.

The nation was scattered (Numbers 9:23), and the people were scattered, oppressed, and afflicted because of unbelief (Deuteronomy 64:28-67).

- Luke 21:20, 24, 29. Preservation and ultimate survival (Amos 9:9-15; Romans 11:25-29).

This last prophecy has not yet been fully fulfilled, but the reality is entirely unique to the individual.

The year 1948 was a historical example of the reunification of the nation of Israel after centuries of exile, which

It is a reference to the complete fulfillment of all prophecies. Even more than the prophecies in the matter.

Israel, there are prophecies about the Messiah that are notable parts of

The inspirations of God are. Prophecies concerning the place of his birth (Micah, 2:5).

The soldiers cast lots for his robe at the foot of the cross (Psalms 14:22-18; Matthew 27:35)

Events from his life that were prophesied hundreds of years ago. Some of

Scholars have concluded that a total of 333 prophecies about Christ were fulfilled.

The chance of such prophecies coming true for a specific individual is approximately 1 in 83 billion,

Introduction 44


It is possible.

Such astonishing predictions are clearly the product of mere invention.

They are not human. The God who knows the future and determines the course of history, alone

The ultimate source of such power is.

Not only do the prophets of the Bible testify to the fulfillment of prophecies,

They are persistent, but their purpose is completely different from human divination. Curiosity and the desire to

Power is the main source of ambition.

But God, in order to reveal Himself and His will, has removed the veil from the future of the peoples and nations.

It takes away. The prophecies of the Bible are not meant to help people.

They are not to record events, but to know God and His plan for history.

It is necessary to align their lives with His goals. In this way, the prophecies

They are a sign of the uniqueness of the Bible.


UNITY IN THE BIBLE

Joshua Mack DeWalt, a famous Christian preacher, tells the story of his encounter with a

Who introduces and defines great books related to the Western world.

This series of books includes writings by prominent thinkers who shaped Western civilization.

have taken shape, starting with the great philosophers of ancient Greece and continuing until the 15th century.

Finally, Joshua challenged the man by referring to these books and asked him:

I would like to name just ten of these writers who have lived a life of their own, in a

They lived in the same place and spoke the same language for a period of time. The person addressed paused for a moment.

And then you say in response, "No, all those writers from these perspectives are the same."

Introduction 45


"They have had differences." When we combine the obvious reality of this diversity in human thought with the

We compare the Bible with a sign based on the naturalness of this book,

The Bible, too, as it is attributed to the ten above-mentioned writers, is subject to time and

We have indicated their location and language, a combination of the writings of forty people from all classes.

Humans, including kings, shepherds, poets, philosophers, orators, and lawmakers,

Fishermen, priests, and prophets. These people read the Bible in a certain period.

They wrote 1500 years ago.

They live in different cultures, and in different literary styles,

They wrote. But the message of the Bible is a magnificent spectacle, all parts of which are

They are compatible with each other.

From the "Paradise Lost" of Genesis to the "Paradise Regained" of Revelation, the Bible is like a

God's great purpose for humanity will be fulfilled through His Son.

Jesus himself declared that the Scriptures testify of him (John 5:39).

It is the person of Jesus Christ and his works that bring the Old Testament to life as the hope of the world.

The New Testament is a continuous fulfillment of hope.

The Bible can be compared to the human body, each member of which is

It defines the other members. Therefore, the different styles of writing the letters in

The Bible is the home of the various members of this body. Such a masterpiece that

Life spans generations, it can only be written by one person, and he is the soul.

"God is the same as He always was," the psalmist sings.

"Your word is truth, and all your righteous judgments are everlasting" (Psalm 119:11).

Introduction 46


(160:119)


The Bible will not disappear.

Only an exceptional work lasts about 25 years, but a book that has been read by people for centuries

They read it, it is truly an unnatural book, books that people read more than a thousand times.

It is indeed rare to read it. However, the Bible with these characteristics,

It is the most famous book in the world. The secret to its survival is its references to the

It is specifically about that. In comparison to all the efforts made in history, this book

It has been done to destroy it. Its exclusive feature is revealed.

In the early days of Christianity, Roman emperors tried to get rid of the Bible.

be saved, because they had come to the conclusion that the church was formed on the basis of

In 303 AD, Diocletian issued a royal edict stating that

All existing Bibles should be burned. He killed many Christians.

And you burned many holy books, thinking that Christianity was no longer

It is over, and the victory celebration is marked by the minting of a coin with the following inscription:

"Christianity ended and the worship of the gods was revived," he said. And what a picture!

It was a mistake, because ten years later, the Roman Emperor Constantine converted to Christianity.

He ordered Eusebius to copy 50 volumes of the Bible at the expense of the government.

Show.

Even today, the Bible is under constant attack from skeptical intellectuals and

The philosophers have become atheists, but their efforts are just like those of the Roman Empire.

It was in vain. The famous French humanist Voltaire boasted that "until

Introduction 47


"In another fifty years, the world will not hear a word about the Bible!"

But at the same time that he was making such a boast, the British Museum

A Greek manuscript of the New Testament was purchased from the Russian government for five hundred

He bought a thousand dollars, while the first edition of Voltaire's book cost

It was sold for eight cents. Fifty years after Voltaire's death, the Bible was sold by

It was printed by the Geneva Bible Society, in the house where Voltaire lived.

Thomas Paine, the famous author of "The Age of Reason," predicted that soon

"The Bible will not be printed." I think the other five volumes of the Bible will be printed in

America will not be found. While today many Americans are more than five

They have volumes of the Bible with different translations.

Hagionus depicts the Bible and Christianity as a picture of an anvil.

He drew a picture of three blacksmiths hammering on it and wrote below the picture.

The more they knock and the more they shout

More and more of their feathers are worn out.

The secret of the survival of the Word of God has been revealed today:

For “all flesh is like grass, and all its glory is like the flower of grass. The grass withers.”

"But the word of God endures forever," and this is that word.

which was preached to you (1 Peter 1:24-25).



The power of the Bible
The Bible claims to be the Word of God and is “living and powerful” (Hebrews 4:12).

The Bible is the tool that God uses to transform the very roots of human life and birth.

Introduction 48


Fresh, in the form of “the word of God, which liveth and abideth forever” (1 Peter 1:23).

The Bible is “the word of life” (Philippians 2:16). The message of the Bible is from

The Gospel is that the Gospel is “the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes.”

(Romans 1:16) The true promises of the Bible set us free from bondage.

(Romans 8:31-32)

A look at the Bible's power of influence throughout history proves these claims.

No other book has had such a powerful influence compared to the Bible.

Great books written by humans teach us how to live in this world.

We live, but none of them transform a person. Many believe this.

It is a great tragedy that, despite the so-called scientific explosion of the last century,

Our ability to love each other and create peace among ourselves, compared to the past

Humans have declined. The endless parade of wars and revolutions is evidence of this.

Expanding brains does not replace people's hearts.

Authoritative writings from other religions never lead to progress and transformation in human lives.

They are not. Their main role is to explain the laws of life, but their power of influence

They don't. In many cases they just accept a kind of stoic philosophy of problems.

They are now.

The influence of the Bible on human societies in the fundamental laws of the largest and most civilized

Societies have seen social reforms, the restoration of women's status, the abolition of slavery, and other changes.

It seems that the end has come for an individual-specific evolution in human societies.

Prominent men, some of whom were not even believers, and complete information from the book

Introduction 49


They did not have the Holy Book, the unique place of the Holy Book in its power of influence in

Human life has confirmed the existence of the city, wrote the philosopher Immanuel Kant.

The Bible is the greatest benefit to mankind that has ever been experienced.

"It is."

Horace Greeley writes, "It is impossible to conceive of a human being and a society that

They read the Bible, they became slaves. The principles of the Bible are the basis of human freedom.

"Our contemporary world is a witness to the truthfulness of Greeley's statements, wherever the Bible is

It has the power to influence and people honestly believe in it, the greatest

It is freedom. The widespread influence of the Bible in society is best demonstrated in

Its ability to transform the lives of individual people. Augustine, Christian leader

The fifth century spent 31 years trying to find the truth, freeing it from the torment of religions and

Life philosophies found release. One day in a park in Milan, he heard the voice of a child.

Hear your neighbor yelling, "Catch him and call him, catch him and call him!"

He opened his Bible and began reading from the first chapter until he reached

Romans 13:13-14 came, and these were the verses that took hold of his life. After

That stream of light filled his soul and all his doubts were dispelled. The book

Closed.

He became one of the greatest leaders of the Christian church after the apostles.

Luther, too, after God opened his eyes to the truth of this verse,

His Word opened: “The just shall live by faith” (Habakkuk), His great reforms

Countless people from all walks of life have proven in their lives and testimonies that

Introduction 50


They have shown that studying and meditating on the Word of God has such life-changing effects.

They have left such an impression on them that no other writing has ever left such an impression on them before.

It is.

Exclusive to the uniqueness of the Bible, by Sir Munir Williams

A professor of Sanskrit literature who has studied Eastern scriptures for 42 years,

It has been confirmed. He has testified that he was initially influenced by telegrams of truth.

It was scattered throughout these writings, and he concluded that these facts were

They have some similarities to the Bible and Christianity to a lesser extent. However, after

Further studies of the completely replaced thinking led to the conclusion that the original idea was

Roots are different from other ideas. This transformation began with a flash of truth in his mind.

He emerged from the absolute darkness and said, "Put all those ideas on the left side of the table."

Place your study and Bible far enough to the right of your study table.

There is a great gap between what you have learned from studying Eastern scriptures and the Bible.

There is a vast gulf between, as Eastern scriptures call it, which makes man despair.

"They leave it to themselves, it exists with the Bible."

Introduction 51




4

Inspiration of the Bible



The Bible claims to be unlike any other book. The Bible is inspired by God.

It is up to man. Furthermore, the Bible supports this claim by showing a portion of

Unusual features have been guaranteed, indicating that something more than

They are books written by humans. The Bible, both in content and in influence,

It is unique.

To look closely at the Bible, we need to understand its truth and essence.

Is the Bible the Word of God? Or is it written by humans with a particular religious perspective?

Is part of the Bible the Word of God and the other part the speech of man?

To find the answers to these questions, we need to consider a hypothesis called inspiration.


                                                                     The concept of inspiration

The term "inspiration" found in the Bible comes from the Second Epistle of Paul.

It is the apostle to Timothy who says, "All Scripture (meaning the Old Testament epistles and

The New Testament is (God-breathed) ". Unfortunately, the meaning of this English phrase is

"Inspiration" doesn't quite convey the Greek meaning. It's actually kind of misleading.

Introduction 52


The word inspire is derived from the Latin word inspiro, which means to inspire.

It is "to blow on," and applying this meaning to the Bible implies that

God has somehow breathed his soul into human writers and endowed them with a kind of value.

It is full of energy. However, this is not what the apostle Paul taught.

The Greek word Paul used is Theopneustos.

Which includes two words theos meaning "God" and pneustos meaning "breath and exhalation"

This verb means to inhale or exhale, not to inspire or "blow out."

In "Therefore theopnesustos means "God-breathed" by the Apostle Paul

By using this phrase, one does not say that the Bible was inspired by man, but rather

It is the product of God's breath. These two meanings convey that the Bible is a written

It is the result of God's inspiration. From this verse in the New Testament that explicitly refers to the Bible

It refers to the inspired expression, applicable to all the writings of the Holy Bible and the

There is a divine influence on human writers, which is why the entire Bible is called

The product of God's inspiration, understood.


Some of the different perspectives
Since the eighteenth century was called the Age of Enlightenment, man has been inspired

The Bible is being challenged. One of the characteristics of this period is questioning.

All traditional authorities, including the Bible, were. It was on this basis that philosophy

Humanism, in its various forms, led to the idea that human thought was the ultimate source of

All concepts are. The English poet Alexander Pope expressed the result of such thoughts in his book

In the title "The Measurement of Man," he stated:

Introduction 53


First, God is superior and man is inferior.

What can we say other than what we know?

Man is an earthly being.

So how can he reason, and from what source?

Although there are countless beliefs in the world about God,

There is no way to find him except by ourselves.



The Darwinian hypothesis of natural evolution, which was put forward in the 19th century, also had the effects of large

From a human perspective, the Bible is a book. The theory of evolution is very much in the mind of the

Humans have reduced the Bible to a purely human book.

The theory of evolution weakens the authority of the Bible in relation to creation, even

It has been in the minds of those who have concepts of God in their minds. Definitely.

The hypothesis of the creation of Adam and Eve is hardly acceptable, without further examination.

It is.

The theory of evolution is used to explain the religious development of man, including in the book

The Holy One was used. Some have said that the religion of Israel was polytheistic.

And idolatry gradually turned into monotheism and finally into monotheism (worship of one God).

God) ended during the time of the prophets of the eighth century BC. It is obvious that

Some have said that this evolutionary path involved a complete reconstruction of the Bible.

For example, Moses certainly could not have been, as traditionally believed.

That the author of the first five books is in the form of a “single God” (Revelation 1:1). Third point and

Introduction 54


Another important thing that has influenced many people in relation to the hypothesis of inspiration is the beginning of

It was historical criticism. The nineteenth and twentieth century scholars, with regard to the philosophies of humanism and

Evolution created a historical philosophy based on the idea that everything, including books,

The sacred are in the flow of history. The assumption is that everything is conditional on

It is the historical circumstances in which they are situated. This philosophy applies to the book

Sacred in religion means understanding God's revelation in all times and for all people.

It is impossible.

Previously, historical criticism claimed that the Bible, like any other book, should be

The method that historians have used to examine historical material,

It is called the "principle of proportion". Only whatever is consistent with human experience,

It can be considered historical.

Such historians do not necessarily reject the supernatural, but rather any attempt to

They deny God and His divine mediation in human history, in order to transform reality.

It has remained outside the realm of history. Such a tendency to deal with the miracles of the Bible

At most, they are natural events. For example, they say that Jesus appeared on the surface.

Saturn has not stepped near the shore and performed any miracles. Other miracles are also often

They seem to be human.

Such a view naturally raises many debates about inspiration. This

The issue is very important from the perspective of the Church. This is not only about conversion to

Debates between liberals and conservative evangelicals have been ongoing, but in recent years

Ambiguity over the nature of the Bible has become a widespread debate among evangelicals.

Introduction 55


Since this issue is directly related to the authority of the Bible and faith,

Christians, rightly called it the Canon of the Gods. Before it was written in the Bible

Returning to the sacred, it is necessary to refer to several theories of inspiration that have been proposed.

Let's do it.

1- The Bible records men who had a kind of supernatural power.

Sometimes this view of inspiration is expressed in relation to those who have special natural abilities.

They have, like artists, poets, musicians, it is used. Some others find inspiration

Limited to some believers, they appear to have more power than other believers.

Most abilities are spiritual.

In either case, inspiration is conceived as the work of God alone.

An illuminating factor is found in relation to the second view. The writings of

The contemporary writer and humanist Isaac Watts and Charles Wesley, in view of some of the

Their spiritual hymns in praise of God, which are in the Hebrew canon, as

It is as if they lived in the time of David and Solomon. Especially with regard to the magnificent song

George Matson, "Oh, Love, Don't Let Me Go," says this writer: "This is the kind of

Inspiration from the songs of the psalmist. There is no difference between minds, and if there is a difference,

"If it exists, it is in their classification."

Such an argument for the greatness of Christian hymns and writings or sermons other than

What the writers of the Bible wrote and what it testifies to is the sincere expression of the truth of the Bible.

They are sacred, they are invisible. In other words, this view is unique to the individual.

The inspiration and subsequent mission of the Holy Spirit in illuminating the inspired writings for

Introduction 56


Believers, it confuses.

2- Only a portion of the Bible is inspired. This hypothesis is sometimes referred to as

It has varying degrees of inspiration. It is believed that God only inspired the writers in some parts of the

The contents of the Bible, using their common sense and human understanding, are a guide.

and has directly inspired them in other areas. In any case, this

The view of inspiration supports human writers to the extent that they are expressed in

The hypothesis of salvation is not wrong. This view is usually considered infallible in "matters of faith."

and practical, or in other words, things like our relationship with God and our behavior before Him,

Both in the world and in the church, they say. Another thing is that the historical and scientific material in the book

The Bible is not inspired, so the writers of these parts of the Bible may have

Like other writers, they make mistakes.

Thus, we are told that the biblical writers understood the concept of

The era before modern science gave us a glimpse of the universe. Talking about the "pillars" of the Earth and

The world of the dead and such fantasies, and a flat earth, a heaven above and a hell below, and

A lake of fire beneath it is completely incompatible with modern science. What

Once called spiritism, today it has been revealed to us that it is a type of illness.

It is mental.

However, there are several problems with the hypothesis of limited inspiration. First, the book

The Bible clearly declares, “All Scripture is given by inspiration of God” (2 Timothy 3:1).

(16:3)

Nowhere in the Bible is there any limitation on the inspiration of matters of “faith and practice.”

Introduction 57


There is no such thing. Secondly, no one has been able to clearly show us where the border is.

Let's distinguish between faith and unbelief.

For example, is the story of the resurrection of the dead a matter of history or faith? If so,

The historical problem of harmonizing the statements of the writers of the four Gospels in this context exists.

Can we simply say that the writers in history made mistakes?

They became, and at the same time, they truly saw the resurrection of the dead under one inspiration.

God's unshakable, preserved? Such a separation seems impossible. If the events

They have no historical reality, how can we accept the hypothesis of the resurrection of the dead as true?

Let us maintain faith, except on the basis of anything other than the contents of the Holy Bible,

Have we judged?

One of the advantages of the Bible over other ancient religions lies in this fact.

It is believed that it is rooted in history rather than in legend.

Depriving history of inspiration because of some unresolved problems leads to

The truth is weakened. Why should God supernaturally influence religious interpretation?

The writers of the Bible relied on historical acts of salvation to achieve their purpose.

They should be delivered without slips or errors, and at the same time include the historical part of the writings.

Could it be human error?

3- The Bible is inspired, not the Word of God. According to this view, God has somehow

The supernatural inspired the ideas of the biblical writers, and then they

They wrote their ideas in their own words. Therefore, the Bible is the oral inspiration of God.

No.

Introduction 58


This hypothesis has at least two important problems. First, it contradicts the teachings

The Bible is about inspiration. As we will see later, the writers of the Bible

They have declared time and time again that they are the mouthpieces of God. Based on the above statement

The Apostle Paul said that the Bible is “inspired” and was written through inspiration (2 Cor.

(2 Timothy 3:16) From a logical point of view, it is difficult to separate thoughts from words.

As human beings, we think linguistically. Wilbur Marshall Urban in his book "Language and

Reality (Select Bibliographic, Reprint, 1939) writes, “All concepts, ultimately

"They are linguistic."

Our experiences show this reality. We can develop our concepts through

We convey symbols such as laughter, but as soon as we think about the concept of laughter, we

We imagine in the sense of the words of the letter. Therefore, the inspiration of thoughts without

It is not contained in words, it is not possible to express it.

4- The Bible is inspired, because it has been transformed into the Word of God. Sometimes

This view is expressed in the phrase "The Bible contains the words of God." In every

Two definitions: The Bible is not directly considered the Word of God. Perhaps a clearer definition

From this hypothesis, we cannot find, except for Karl Barth's words on this matter,

Let's think:

Oral inspiration means the infallibility of the biblical passages in their verbal, historical form.

And theology and human speech are not. This means that the human word is inadequate and defective.

It was used by God, and it should have been accepted despite the fallibility of man.

And be heard.

Introduction 59


(Church Dogmatics Edinburgh, T. & T. Chark, 1956, 1/2, 533).

What believers in such a popular view believe is that God

He takes the writers of the Bible under his influence to be special witnesses of the works of

His greatness, especially his revelation in Christ, should be in this world.

This divine influence leads them to reflect on these events and personal encounters.

They have to reconcile themselves with God through these events so that God can

Their speeches were used to convey the message and speak to those who read those writings.

These writers express their ideas based on the everyday language they use.

They lived in it, they wrote it in words.

According to the thoughts of some modern scholars, the prophets and apostles from the stories of

Myths and miracles were used to convey spiritual truths.

Most of what appear to be historical accounts must be based on

Myths have been removed and they have been clothed in the garments of truth to reveal spiritual truths.

They should be transferred correctly. Since such a thing is impossible, based on such a view

It is difficult to balance any of the practical statements of the Bible with the words of God.

Because we don't know what God is saying.

Therefore, when Theodore Englder says that those who support this theory are reading from the book

"They are holy," denying miracles from God and receiving an inspired and infallible scripture from

They are God's servants to mankind, but they believe that God performs great miracles every day in

It is done to strengthen a person so that he can speak his own slippery words in speech.

"The unshakable God, behold" (Christian Dogmatics, Concordia, 1960, p. 111).

Introduction 60


There is an interesting dimension to this hypothesis.

It is obvious that such an interpretation of the Pashto Bible is not inspired and is not the Word of God.

It turns it into something that depends on the way of thinking of an individual and that different people can

They hear it differently and cannot know exactly whose point of view is correct.

5- The Bible was dictated to the scribes by God. Although this view

There have been a few who have been accepted by the Church in its history, but it has been generally accepted.

All those who believe in the oral inspiration of the Bible. At least this

The theory is merely an accusation, an argument that God had to be the one to write the Bible.

Use several secretaries to dictate his speeches.

The writings of the pioneer evangelists in this field have repeatedly stated this.

They have denied a hypothesis. When some of the reformers of the 16th and 17th centuries

They called it "dictated by the Holy Spirit" and it means

Dictated as a metaphor to express the fact that human writers

They used what God wanted them to write. They did not deny this truth in any way.

They did not realize that the human hand was also at work in the writing of the Bible.

Some things, such as the "Ten Commandments," which God wrote directly on stone tablets,

They came from God. But in the final analysis and analysis of the writings of the Holy Book,

They clearly show the differences in the style and personality of their writers.

In His inspired work, God did not cast aside the man He had created, but

He chose different people who were ready to serve him and through

Their deeds, their mistakes, expressed what they wanted. Today, too, they are doing the same.

Introduction 61


It seems that God uses believers in a similar way as channels for carrying out His will.

His intention, he uses. The only difference is that in inspiring, his influence

That is how the truth is guaranteed.

6- The Bible is entirely the inspired word of God and at the same time, the words of the writers

It is human. Inspiration is the impressionability of the thought of the writer of the Bible, that his speech

It should not be merely human, but divine. The inspiration that reigns over the evangelists and scribes throughout

It has been the history of the church.


Estimation of the inspiration hypothesis

Now we want to know which of these views is correct regarding inspiration.

For this purpose, two methods are proposed, which approximately and ultimately lead to two

The first method is to take all the data from the Bible and

Let's test them to see if they are really completely error-free. Only with this test can we

That we can know that the Bible is truly inspired and the extent of its inspiration

Let's identify to see if part of it is inspired or all of it is inspired.

It is.

Another method is to review and study the sections related to inspiration in the Bible,

Based on this method, we must carefully interpret all sections related to inspiration.

The assessment of such an interpretation is necessarily our assessment of the hypothesis of inspiration.

The difference between these two methods can be illustrated by considering a specific example in the Bible,

Explain. Jesus called the mustard seed the smallest of all seeds.

(Matthew 13:32) But the science of botany is smaller than a mustard seed, the news

Introduction 62


Gives.

The first way to deal with this verse from the Bible, which is apparently scientifically

It is not true that every part of the Bible that is inspired must have

It should be of such a nature that it contains a number of "errors", including this verse. Statement

The apostle's statement that "all Scripture is inspired by God" should be interpreted in a limited way.

There may be room for such errors. In other words, such an interpretation

It is affirmed that the teachings of the inspired Bible must be interpreted in such a way as to harmonize

It should be based on an estimate that we have obtained from testing it. If we make a historical mistake and

We find either a scholarly or a statement from a writer that we cannot reconcile with other statements.

Let's coordinate writers, this is where we need to find inspiration in coordination with these "mistakes".

Let's define.

The big problem with such an approach is that human research and knowledge are

A standard of truth for determining which statements from the Bible are true or false.

The history of Bible research shows that these problems

They have roots in levels such as archaeology, language, and manuscripts. The final verdict

Issuing today, while it is possible to do so tomorrow with the receipt of fresh information,

The subject is clear, it is free. The second method is also aimed at the concept of inspiration.

directly from the Bible itself, with such problems as a mustard seed

But such a method first requires examining what the Bible says about

He himself has said, he will pay, then he will take problems like mustard seeds, with

The teachings of the Bible are self-consistent.

Introduction 63


A careful study of the teachings of the Bible shows that both Christ and the scribes

The Bible teaches the inspiration of the entire Bible, while such

It is difficult to find a definition of the problem that is consistent with such teachings. If

A problem arises that has no proper solution, no proper justification for changing the teachings.

The Bible is not explicit. We must also recognize our limitations as human beings.

Consider the way we deal with other biblical precepts in the past.

We get, it can help us know which one of the above methods is correct.

The evangelical church has always affirmed the full deity and sinlessness of Christ based on verses such as

John 1:1 emphasizes this. But suppose we want to examine the teachings of the Bible.

Christ about the Holy One to conclude whether he was God or not. Jesus in Luke

19:18 He said to the rich young man, "You call me good, and yet you

"No one is good except God." Such a statement can be easily understood.

He interpreted it as meaning that Jesus did not identify himself as anyone less than God, and even

The sinner also makes. On another occasion, Jesus spoke to Adam about his own ignorance of the day.

He has acknowledged his return, saying that "only the Father knows that day."

(Mark 13:32) But because one of God’s attributes is His omniscience, He can do much.

It was easy to conclude from this verse that Jesus is not God. But the church uses such verses to

It has not been used to diminish the divinity of Christ. Faithful teachers have made such interpretations of this

Such verses have been presented that are consistent with the explicit and clear teachings of divinity and sinlessness.

They are Christ.

The common way of understanding the teachings of the Bible in relation to a proposed hypothesis

Introduction 64


It always begins with an examination of explicit statements in relation to that hypothesis, and in

The same approach should be taken with regard to the hypothesis of inspiration. In the next chapter,

We will examine what the Bible teaches about inspiration.

Introduction 65




5


The Testimony of the Writers of the Bible



When we examine the Bible for its inspiration, there are criticisms raised.

They become, like using a loop of unfair arguments.

We may react in two ways, firstly if someone is allowed to

Let's not let him speak his mind and immediately accuse him of lying, that's all.

We will not allow the Bible to speak for itself. Jesus in

Defending Himself Against the Pharisees He said, "Even though I bear witness about myself, my testimony is true."

"I am the truth" (John 14:8) The value of the Bible is confirmed by external and internal reasons.

Therefore, the Bible's claim about itself is worthy of attention.

Second, believing Christians know that the Bible is the basis of all religious observances.

The greatest faith is the divinity of Christ and salvation through His death and resurrection.

If we take the Bible as our guide to the truths above,

Why can't we accept its teachings about our own nature?

In this section, we will take a look at some of the most important signs of

External based on the authenticity of the Bible in the teachings of Christ. In the next section,

Introduction 66


An examination of Jesus' view of the Bible, his use of the Bible, and his following

He will teach us from the Bible.


Two old parts
Examining the hypothesis of inspiration brings us to two key passages of Scripture.

2 Timothy 3:16-17 and 2 Peter 1:20-21. These two sections are related to

The hypothesis of inspiration and authorship of the Bible and the special influence of the Bible on those who read it

They wrote.

1- 2 Timothy 16:3-17- In this section, the apostle Paul, Timothy,

Encourage your young person to believe and act on what they have learned. This section

Includes reference to the "Holy Scripture" that Timothy received from the Great Mother

The godly man has learned it since childhood. Then Paul adds something to that:

Perhaps the most important statement in the entire Bible about its inspiration is:

"All Scripture is inspired by God and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting and training in

"Justice is beneficial, so that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work."

(1 Timothy 3:16-17)

These verses begin in the English translation with the phrase: "The whole book of

"God's inspiration." That's why in some translations instead of "All"

The phrase "Eery" (whichever one is used) gives the reader the idea that

Some of the epistles may not be inspired, which fortunately are in new translations,

This is important to note and "All" has been used.

To understand what the apostle Paul is saying, we must first understand the meaning of the word

Introduction 67


"Let us know Scripture." This Greek word means "written" and "letter." But

Jews have a special way of referring to their holy scriptures, using this phrase:

They used. Therefore, Paul is referring here to the Old Testament epistles, which

They had long been accepted as canon and sacred writings before him.

When Paul spoke these words, the New Testament was not yet completed.

The final collection of authoritative Christian writings had not been completed.

In any case, there are reasons for applying Paul's words to the New Testament epistles of Christ.

There is a logical explanation. The term “holy” was used by the early church to refer to the sacred writings that

They were accepted along with the Old Testament, and were declared. Therefore, the statement of the Apostle Paul

It is a general statement about the nature of the Bible. When the New Testament is compared to the writings of

The Holy Church was added, placed under such a statement.

There are signs in the New Testament (meaning the time of the apostles).

There were some Christian writings that were called "holy." Peter

The apostle Paul compared Paul's writings with "the other epistles" and called them sacred.

(2 Peter 3:16) The New Testament writers clearly wrote their writings from

The inspired view was considered to be completely equivalent to the Old Testament writings. Peter

His readers remembered this important fact:

"That ye may remember the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets, and the commandment of God, and of salvation."

"The gift given to you apostles" (2 Peter 3:2).


Therefore, Paul's statements about inspiration may logically apply to the entire book.

To be called holy. Looking more closely at this statement, we notice an important emphasis.

Introduction 68


First, the Bible is inspired. It is obvious that God must have had an influential work in it.

This scribe may have had it, but Paul here wrote it down, word for word, sentence for sentence,

It is shown.

Second, it has been claimed that these writings are "inspired" or, as it is observed,

We say that they are "breathed by" God. Therefore, the Bible tells us

You say it is the product of God's breath.

The idea of God's breath was very familiar to those familiar with the Old Testament. This

The Word speaks clearly of God's creative works through the Holy Spirit.

The Psalmist says, "By the word of God were the heavens made, and all their host by the breath of his mouth."

Man, when God “breathed into his nostrils the breath of life,” became a living being (Psalm 6:33).

The creature became a living being (Genesis 7:2). The same idea is repeated in Job 4:33.

"The Spirit of God has created me, and the breath of the Almighty has given me life." No matter how many

The Bible is composed of human writings, but the Apostle Paul went beyond all

Its verses mention the breath (spirit) of God. This is the Holy Spirit, the Creator and the One who

The final author of the written words of the Bible is Paul the Apostle.

“All” of the Bible is inspired by God, not just a part of it. Nowhere in the Bible is it written that

The Bible makes no mention of any distinction between parts of the Bible that relate to

Humans are either saved, or the parts that refer more to worldly matters,

It has not come to light. Opponents of the universal inspiration of the Bible often point to

They refer to verse 15, where the apostle Paul tells Timothy that the writings of

The saints can “teach man the wisdom of salvation.” While salvation is definitely

Introduction 69


The law is the Bible. It is remarkable that such a statement would allow someone to

It was concluded that only those parts of the Bible that directly deal with spiritual truths

They speak, they are inspired, it is a problem. Paul has no knowledge of such things.

There was no division in the Bible. The Bible was for him entirely inspired by God.

It was God.

2- The Epistle of Peter 20:1-21- If Paul in 2 Timothy 3:16

The true nature of the Bible has been shown to us, the second key section, written

It is the apostle Peter who tells us how these supernatural writings,

"For prophecy was never brought by the will of man, but

"Men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit" (2 Peter 1:11).

(21:1)

The term "prophecy" in this section simply refers to future prediction or even

There are no specific statements from individuals who were called prophets. The word prophet means someone

Who speaks the word of God. This concept comes from the words that Aaron spoke instead of Moses.

It is revealed, it is revealed. Aaron was Moses' spokesman. When Moses

Adam complained to God about his inability to speak, and God said to him, "Bedouin."

(This refers to Aaron - M) You will speak and you will convey the word to his tongue.

...and he will speak for you to the people, and he will put your mouth in place of your tongue.

"And you shall call him instead of God" (Exodus 4:15-16). And then God took the task

This is how he described Aaron to Moses: "Your brother Aaron will be your prophet."

"It was" (Exodus 1:7). In the same way, God's prophet speaks the word of God. When

Introduction 70


God appointed Jeremiah as “prophet to the nations,” and Jeremiah considered himself worthy of this position.

He did not know and said to God, “I do not know how to speak” (Jeremiah 5:1-6). God responded

He taught him the meaning of "prophecy" and how to speak: "Speak whatever I command you."

"You will do...I will put my words in your mouth" (Jeremiah 7:1-9). Later, the prophet Jeremiah

The real one is called one who “stands in the counsel of the Lord” and one who has the Word.

The prophet hears God’s words and “declares” them to the people (Jeremiah 18:23-22).

God, so it was natural that whenever prophecy was mentioned, there would be references to

The wisdom of the Bible as the Word of God and this was a common statement in the early church in

The reference was to the entire Old Testament.

Divine Influence on His Own Spoken People and the Writers of the Holy Bible

It is to this that the apostle Peter referred, stating that "prophecy does not come by the will of man."

No, but as a result of "people being filled with the Holy Spirit by God"

They said, "The key phrase in this verse is 'being attracted' or, better yet, 'to

It is "moving in".

In Greek, this phrase means that a sailing ship is propelled by the wind.

It was used. When the wind blew, a sailing ship moved, when

The wind calms down, the ship stops. To get light, we can

Let's describe the movement of a piece of wood in a stream of water. The rate of movement of this wood and its path

It is directly related to the gentleness of the water flow that propels it. This phrase

It is assumed that the writers of the Bible were instruments in the hands of the Holy Spirit.

They were God's creation. The Holy Spirit guided them as to when and what to write. The duty

Introduction 71


It is not that they were generally passive writers, but that their works

They were under the control of the Holy Spirit. They did what the Holy Spirit wanted.

They wrote, so ultimately it was the Holy Spirit who wrote the Bible.

It is, and humans only wrote the Bible.

These two key statements teach us that the words of the Bible are the product of

They were the breath of God and His creative spirit. Their method of production was under the control and influence of the Holy Spirit.

It has been in human writings. In both of these verses, the emphasis is on this truth.

That the writing of the Bible was not ultimately a practical human endeavor, but rather a speech that

God wanted to say.


Claiming to write the words of God
When we listen to the words of the writers of the Bible, we realize that

They claim to have written the words of God. In the first part of the Bible, notice

The phrase "And God said" is repeated at least ten times. Many of

Introductory sentences in the Bible begin with this phrase: "The Lord is like this."

“The Lord said to me” (Amos 1:13). “The mouth of the Lord of hosts” (Isaiah 8:11).

"Speak" (Micah 4:4).

One person has estimated that sentences like the one above are 3808

times in the Old Testament. The prophet Isaiah alone claimed at least 20 times that

The prophet Jeremiah also wrote “the word of the Lord” (cf. Isaiah 10:1). He also claimed to have heard the word of the Lord about a hundred times.

It is stated that “the word of God came to him” (cf. Jeremiah 2:1, 4, and Ezekiel 2:1).

He also made such a claim 60 times (cf. Ezekiel 3:16).

Introduction 72


The writers of the Old Testament have already confirmed that God commanded them to

It is to write his words. Moses said that the Lord said to him:

"Write these words, for according to these words, the covenant is between you and me."

"Israel is strong" (Exodus 27:34).


Jeremiah also mentioned this:

“Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: ‘All the words that I have spoken to you

"Write it in a scroll, I have said" (Jeremiah 2:30).


In fact, the Holy Spirit spoke through the writers of the Old Testament, and therefore

The Apostle Peter's statement, they were moved by the Holy Spirit. The Prophet Ezekiel

It is said:

Then the Spirit of God came upon me and said to me, “Say, ‘Thus says the Lord:

O house of Israel, you speak thus, but I know the imaginations of your hearts.

"I know." (Ezekiel 5:11)


David declared in the last moments of his life, "The Spirit of the Lord spoke through me."

"And his word was upon my tongue" (2 Samuel 2:23). In such a general gathering

We conclude that God has been speaking to His people for many years. The Prophet Nehemiah

"It is written," you have endured many years with him and have given your soul to him.

"You sent them a testimony through your prophets" (Nehemiah 9:30). See also

Look at verse (20)

The New Testament writers, especially in the introductions to their epistles, explicitly

Introduction 73


His writings were inspired, as the writers of the Old Testament declared.

They have not been called. Beyond the statement of these writers is the promise of Christ to His apostles.

That the Holy Spirit will teach them. In his last conversations with his disciples, Jesus

In a place called the "upper room," he referred to the coming of the Holy Spirit, which would lead to the mission of

He will continue it through his disciples and even expand it. He

He promised that the Holy Spirit would “teach [them] all things, and teach them all things.”

[They] said, “He will remember [them].” (John 14:26)

In addition to bringing to mind the historical teachings of Jesus, the Holy Spirit also brings new teachings from

The Lord, after His ascension into heaven, will bring. Jesus said to His disciples

"I have many other things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now."

They do not. But when he, the Spirit of truth, comes, he will guide you into all truth.

He will do this because he will not speak on his own, but will speak what he has heard.

He said, "And he will tell you things to come." (John 12:16-14)


These verses contain promises from the Holy Spirit that the eyes

It opens the eyes of believers and shows them the truth of God's Word. Perhaps this is the case.

The second work is the work of the Holy Spirit, but the direct lesson from these statements of Jesus is regarding the mission.

Those who would be His future apostles and witnesses (cf. John

26:15 (27)

As Jesus had said before, their teachings would be the teachings of Jesus,

"He who hears you hears me"... Luke 16:10 (Return to the context)

Matthew 19:10-20

Introduction 74


Later, the apostle Paul declared and confirmed the fulfillment of these promises of God:

"Apostles," not with words taught by human wisdom, but with what the Holy Spirit

It teaches, “...they speak the gospel of Jesus, not of man, (1 Corinthians 2:13).”

Rather, it was “the revelation of Jesus Christ” (Galatians 1:12; Ephesians 3:3-4, 8).

The Thessalonians did not accept Paul's preaching as "the word of man, but as it is in truth."

"...and were convinced of God's will" (1 Thessalonians 2:13).

Speaks (Titus 2:1-3)

The apostle Peter advised the readers of his epistle, "Remember the words that

The holy prophets spoke beforehand, and the command of our God and Savior, which he sent to your apostles,

"He has given" (2 Peter 2:3). He made two claims in this statement. First, that his words

And he considered the other apostles equal to the words of the prophets of the Old Testament and made them

The influence of the Holy Spirit on the writers was described (1 Peter 1:20-21). Then he confirmed

It shows that the apostles have orders from God. The apostle John wrote the Book of Revelation.

“The Revelation of Jesus Christ” was an introduction that “God gave him to show what must soon happen.”

"He has appeared to his servants and sent his angel to show them what is coming." (Revelation 1:11)

(1:1)

The letter of the apostle John to the seven churches, a direct message from the Lord, arose.

from the dead, with the church (Revelation 1:2, 8). This letter includes a request for a blessing for

"Those who accept this revelation are blessed." Happy is the one who reads and

"Those who hear the words of this prophecy, and keep what is written in it...

(Revelation 1:3) This letter contains a curse on those who add to the word and

Introduction 75


They reduce it by:

“For I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: If anyone

"Add to them, God will add to him the plagues that are written in this book."

(Revelation 18:22-19)


Such strong language can only mean that John wrote his words as if they were the Word of God.

God Almighty knows. Many examples of such claims and revelations can be named.

There is no indication in the apostles' epistles that only some of them came from the region.

God and some of them are from the human realm, they are not found. From this point of view, we should pay attention

Let's look at two statements by the apostle Paul that are sometimes misunderstood. Paul in

His advice regarding the marriage of believers with unbelievers, begins with the phrase "I write,

"Not God" is used (1 Corinthians 12:7). This phrase, this concept

It does not imply that his word does not have the value and authority of the Word of God. In comparison with the verse

It becomes clear that he is referring to the teachings of Jesus when he was on earth.

lived, because the issue of divorce had already been raised, Paul was able to

Jesus’ teachings are a fatwa (Matthew 3:19-12). However, the issue of mixed marriage, i.e. marriage

Believers were not to be associated with unbelievers. As a result, Paul

He could not attribute his words to God, but rather his fatwa in this

The case declares that he is an apostle of Jesus. Another interesting statement from the apostle Paul in

That season has come. Paul gave his guidance regarding widows in the following circumstances:

"The special one that was specific to that time ends with these words." But

In my opinion, [a widow] is happier if she remains a widow, and I also think

Introduction 76


"I believe that I have the Spirit of God" (1 Corinthians 7:40). Although this verse may seem strange at first glance,

Nafi is inspired by God, but upon closer examination, it becomes clear that this is also

No. When Paul says this, it is his "opinion," not a direct command.

God, he gave his opinion “by the grace of God” and inspired by the Holy Spirit (verse 40).

, will be enforced.

As an ordinary believer, he did not advise or guide others.

But as an apostle of Jesus.


The Bible is approved by God.

One of the strongest signs of the inspiration of the Old Testament is the abundant transmission of

Parts of it are in the New Testament. Roger Nichol, professor of theology at the University of

Gordon Conwell has studied this matter and says that the New Testament mentions it 295 times.

It is quoted directly from the Old Testament. If we look at the clear references and passages

The New Testament does not directly quote from the Old Testament, but rather alludes to it.

It has been shown that, let's calculate, this number is based on the researchers' estimate of 4105 times

It is true. Not only have these sections been quoted as authentic verses; but the manner of quoting them

Their words are very important for understanding the teachings of the Bible regarding inspiration. This

The high spatial flow provides an excellent opportunity for studying and examining the teachings of the Bible.

It is, but in our context we must approach the New Testament writers in two ways.

The writers of the Old Testament, let us be aware. The first way to know them is from their dual perspective, that is,

"Human and divine, which are confirmed in the following sections," until the word that God

"That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet" (Matthew 22:1); "David said in the Holy Spirit"

Introduction 77


(Mark 12:36; “The Holy Spirit spoke by the mouth of David” (Acts 1:16; “The Holy Spirit

The mediation of the prophet Isaiah (Acts 25:28) “...when we look at the two sides of the truth

Speaking of the Old Testament, it is clear from these verses that the writers of the Bible,

They correctly understand that the original author of the Holy Bible is God, who, by his inspired Spirit,

It has been at work.

The second example directly shows that the New Testament writers were

What did the Old Testament think? The New Testament says 65 times that God, the author of the covenant,

It is ancient. For example, in the book of Acts 13:34-35, there is a quotation from the prophet Isaiah and

The Psalms have both stated that the Old Testament is the word of God. Specifically,

Interestingly, many of the quotes are actually human words addressed to

God. The Psalms quoted in Hebrews 1:7-12 are a complete account of

The psalms are all praises to God, yet they are also called the words of God and

They have been introduced to it, as Psalm 95:7 says, "Today I wish his song would be heard."

"You hear," is introduced in Hebrews 7:3, the words of the Lord. The writer of the Epistle to the

Hebrews, these words are for us today, centuries after the death of the writers of the Old Testament.

We live, the living and the powerful know.

Apart from the importance of our Lord's personal testimony, which we will discuss in the next chapter.

This examination of the Bible's perspective on inspiration leaves no doubt that

The writers of the Bible accepted themselves as channels for God's own revelation.

They have attributed to him what they have said as the words of God.

They claimed to faithfully and faithfully pass on these discoveries to future generations and to us.

Introduction 78


They have been delivered. William Temple, a contemporary writer and scholar of the Bible, says: “Even

Not a single sentence can be found in the Bible that is separated from the influence and power of the Holy God.

"Show".

Introduction 79




Christ's View of the Bible 6


All Christians call Christ their Lord and see Him as someone who is not

They know the only way to salvation, but the way to life. Therefore, the guidance of Christ includes

His teachings are, Christians always consider his words to be respected and authoritative.

When Jesus lived on earth, he claimed that the only words of his Father that he

He who has sent me will bear witness (John 16:7). In the Gospel of Matthew we read:

"And when Jesus had finished these sayings, the multitudes were astonished at his doctrine,

For he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes” (Matt.

28:7-.(29)


His view regarding his teachings was: "Heaven and earth will pass away, but

"My words will never pass away" (Mark 13:31). The words spoken by Jesus

He will judge all people on the last day (John 12:48).

Ornaments are not intended to adorn the Holy Book or the body, but rather to speak

They present Jesus in a more authoritative way than the rest of the Bible.

The words of God through the mouths of prophets and apostles and through the Holy Spirit, the content of the book

They are holy. Nevertheless, Jesus' teachings are unique to him because of his unique position.

The title of the only Son of God has special significance. If He is our Lord,

Introduction 80


is, we must also accept his teachings regarding the Bible and his view of

Let the Word of God be our vision.


Christ's Acceptance of the Bible
Sometimes we hear people who act very close to God,

"People of the Word," those whose words and behavior are saturated with the Holy Bible.

They are called. According to the writings of the Gospels, Jesus is the best example of such a person.

Some might imagine that because Jesus was the Son of God and the words of the Father

He speaks his heavenly language, uses the Bible less. But with

A look at his life and mission reveals such a picture. In every

We read about a time when Jesus quoted from the Bible and used it in his teachings.

The contents of the Bible indicated that his personal life was subject to power and prestige.

It was a holy book.

1- Jesus often used the Bible - Jesus' words will be in

His struggle with Satan, during his experience in the wilderness, will be used to teach

The multitude of listeners, or the training of his disciples, was accompanied by the citation of passages from the Book of the Covenant.

                                                                       antique

The Old Testament texts in prayer, even when he was suffering on the cross, were on his tongue.

His mind was so saturated with the verses of the Holy Bible that he used them for

It is used to express your feelings.

David's lament, centuries ago, when Jesus cried out on the cross, "Father,

"Father, why have you forsaken me?" (Matthew 27:46) was the expression of His agony on the cross.

Introduction 81


In the same way, his faith was reflected in the words of the psalmist: “He gave his soul to

Into your hands I commit all things” (Psalm 5:31; Luke 46:33).

Even after his ascension to heaven, Jesus continued to study the Bible. In the Bible,

The King James Version of the Bible contains 3,779 verses only found in the four Gospels, according to

Graham Scroggie's (1934) theory is that the number of these verses, both in general and

What is the part related to the words of Christ? Of these 1934 verses, approximately 180 verses or

1
These verses include teachings, quotations, or references to the Old Testament.
10

In addition, God's references to the Old Testament throughout its historical context

Christ refers to creation in many ways in the Old Testament, referring to people and events.

Man and the institution of marriage in the Old Testament (Matthew 4:19-6), The death of Abel (Matthew 35:23), Daily

Noah (Matthew 37:24), Destruction of Sodom (Luke 29:17), Abraham (John 56:8), Transfiguration

God in the burning bush (Mark 12:26), the life of David (Matthew 12:3), the mission of Elijah (Luke 12:12)

(4:25) and the testimony of the prophet Zechariah (Matthew 23:35) is mentioned. It is interesting to note that

This is what Christ said in the last instance we mentioned of these references, "until

All the righteous blood that has been shed on the earth... from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of

Zechariah "...according to the order of the books in the Old Testament at the time of Jesus, the book of Genesis in

The beginning and, as far as we know, the two books of the Chronicles of My Days were at the end, so

In his references to the Old Testament, Jesus used the entire Bible as a reference to death.

It covered Abel to Zechariah. Another similar sign of such coverage is in the reference

He is “in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms” (Luke 24:44). In that day

The Old Testament is divided into three major sections: Law, Prophecy, and Writings. Psalms

Introduction 82


The first part of these writings was. Therefore, Jesus, in his reference to “the Scriptures” (verse 45),

It has three parts in mind.

Elsewhere, Jesus refers to the Bible in the form of the "Torah" and "the Prophets."

(Matthew 5:17)

2- Jesus' rejection of modern criticisms - many new teachers do not accept it

That Moses wrote the first five books of the Bible, which is often called the "Torah"

It was, it is. Yet Jesus repeatedly referred to these books as being written by Moses,

He is mentioned approximately 24 times that Moses wrote the Torah.

He is a prophet and quotes from the Torah 16 times. He says in John 19:7,

"Didn't Moses give you the Torah?"

These researchers say that the book of Isaiah was written by two or more people.

They say that chapters 1-39 of this treatise were written by one person and chapters 46-66 by a second person.

or "Second Isaiah" is written. But Jesus, while quoting the word throughout the epistle,

The prophet Isaiah considered it written by Isaiah. In a specific example, Jesus also

Chapter 53 and also from chapter 6 of Isaiah are quotations, and both have been attributed to Isaiah.

                                                            (John 12:38) 41

Some of the miraculous events of the Old Testament, especially the events of the first chapter of the book

Genesis has terrified many. However, Jesus has historically

It is accepted. According to the command of our Lord, God created Adam and Eve (Matthew 4:19).

Cain and Abel existed (Luke 11:51) and in the time of Noah a great flood occurred.

It has fallen (Matthew 24:38).

Introduction 83


Jesus told the truth about the destruction of Sodom by fire and brimstone and the story of Lot's wife.

Jesus confirmed the miracles of Elijah (Luke 25:4-26) and even

The story of Jonah and the great whale is confirmed (Matthew 12:40). Therefore, we can

Let's say even one example of Jesus' words indicating the invalidity and authority of the covenant's contents.

Antiquities do not exist.

3- Following the person of Jesus from the Bible - Jesus' respect for the Bible,

It is not only reflected in the number of his references to the Old Testament, but also in his personal adherence to it.

From the authority of the Old Testament. As James says, Jesus was only a “hearer” or

Jesus was not a “sayer,” but a doer of the word of God (James 1:22-23).

His experience, in the wilderness, resisted evil. The Old Testament contradicts what it says.

Satan wanted Jesus to do something, he gave him a command, and Jesus obeyed. The things that

Jesus often faced hostile reactions from religious leaders, who condemned him.

They were violating the Law of Moses, but Jesus' response to them was always the same.

If they knew the true meaning of the law, they would realize that he was a man

(John 7:21) These problems were caused by the religious leaders of that time.

The people had “made void the commandment of God for their own sake” (Matthew 6:15).

Jesus' perfect obedience from the Old Testament was manifested there in order to fulfill God's will,

He bought suffering and death with his life.

He showed his obedience to the task given to him by the Father and the necessity of fulfilling the Word of God.

He was to go "to Jerusalem" and "with sinners"

Because such steps were necessary to fulfill what was spoken of by the prophets concerning the Son of God.

Introduction 84


The man who was written, “It was fulfilled” (Luke 18:31-33 and 22:37).

Thus, even though Jesus received a new revelation from the Father, he remained completely obedient.

It was a word that God had spoken before in the Old Testament. These words were completely true of him.

It was in harmony with his words and actions and had to be fully fulfilled (Matthew 5:17).


Christ's Use of the Bible
Christ was not only familiar with the Bible, but his thoughts about the truths of the Bible

He was filled with it, and he regularly used Old Testament verses throughout his ministry.

Whenever he referred to the Old Testament, he emphasized its greatness, its value, and its righteousness.

Its absoluteness is emphasized in every case.

1- The Bible was the basis of his teachings - despite the fact that Jesus

He had received revelation from his father, most of his teachings related to fundamental and natural principles.

It was based on the Old Testament verses. The proclamation of the Kingdom of God was taken back by him from

The Old Testament prophecies, and especially the book of Daniel (Matthew 4:17; Daniel 2:64).

In his conversation with Nicodemus, Jesus pointed out and explained the truth of the new birth.

That the prophet Ezekiel and other prophets spoke of the new birth (John 5:3; Ezekiel

25:36-.(37)

Jesus answered the issue of divorce based on theology and the story of Genesis.

God created man and woman, and the two become one in marriage. These teachings

It is based on the Old Testament and the will of God (Matthew 4:19-6).

On another occasion, Jesus expressed his awareness of man's ultimate duty to God,

Based on Deuteronomy 5:6, he summarized: “Then he loved the LORD his God with all his soul and with all his

Introduction 85


“Love your neighbor as yourself with all your heart” (Matthew 22:37). Even the law is called the golden rule of morality.

Jesus said, "What you do not wish for yourself, do not wish for others."

It is called "the law and the prophets."

Jesus spoke what the prophet Isaiah had prophesied centuries earlier about the people of his day.

He also said, attributed to the scribes and Pharisees of the first century AD:

"This people draw near to me with their tongues, and with their lips they honor me."

They praise Me, but their hearts are far from Me. So they make My worship futile.

"For they teach for doctrines the commandments of men" (Matthew 8:15-9, quoted from

Isaiah 13:29


Jesus sometimes expressed a sentence or a specific thought based on the circumstances of that day.

Jesus was referring to the phrase "sheep without a shepherd," which occurs many times in the Old Testament.

He used a word that was very appropriate for the people of his day (Matthew 6:9; Numbers

(Ezekiel 5:34; 17:27) Jesus speaks about usurping a position that is not worthy of a person and

Sitting in his proper place, he warned (Luke 14:7-11), and this is true.

It is the body that Solomon referred to in Proverbs 6:25-7. Jesus said in the

The persistence of poverty is based on the direct statement of Deuteronomy 11:15.

In this case, numerous situations can be mentioned, but these are just a few.

Case to show that Jesus used the Old Testament as a rich source for his teachings

He knew, that was enough, and even more importantly, he claimed that it was not on his part, but

The words that He speaks are from the Father (John 8:28; 50:12). Therefore, the covenant

Atiq can be called the father's special guide.

Introduction 86


More importantly, Jesus used the Old Testament to show the nature and

His mission in this world was used. We have already seen how Jesus

His resurrection from the dead is the main focus of the Old Testament in relation to matters related to

He himself taught his students, but long before this flow of his was completed.

The Bible itself had pointed out, and said:

"Do not think that I have come to abolish the Torah or the Prophets. I have not come to

"I will not cease until I have finished" (Matthew 5:17).


The mission of John the Baptist, who was the forerunner of Jesus, fulfilled the prophecy of the prophet Isaiah.

It was a sign that a messenger would be sent to prepare the way for God.

(Matthew 10:11) Jesus began his ministry in Nazareth by opening the scroll in the synagogue and

The reading of Isaiah 61:1 began:

"The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor, and to heal the brokenhearted."

He sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to set at liberty the captives, and to recover sight to the blind.

"To preach sight and to set at liberty them that are bruised" (Luke 4:18).


And then he declared that this prophecy had been fulfilled in him (verse 21).

On another occasion, when Jesus' disciples asked him if he really

It is the one who is to come, Jesus reveals his true identity by pointing to

The miracles he performed and the fulfillment of Isaiah's prophecy about the Messiah and the time

He showed them His coming (Matthew 1:11-1:6, and refer to Isaiah 5:35-6).

Jesus could not have truly performed His works anywhere except on the very scene of Golgotha.

Introduction 87


In fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies, he speaks. In obedience to God's will, as in

The Holy Book has come, behave. In this obedience, he declared that he

He has completed the Bible. This claim was made at the end of his torture on the cross,

It was proven. He had already experienced the process of surrendering, being arrested, and separating himself from

He announced his disciples and his death so that the Scriptures would be fulfilled, but still

Until the last moment of his life, he was worried about whether these prophecies would come true about him.

No! The Gospel of John writes:

And then, when Jesus saw that all things were finished until the Scriptures were fulfilled,

He said, “I will give you my life.” (John 19:28)


Even the Psalmist's prophecy about God's suffering servants not drinking wine

They take from God, fulfilled in his sufferings and said: "It is finished" and bowed his head.

"He came down, and gave up his life" (John 19:30). When he saw what the Old Testament had to say about him,

He had prophesied, he fulfilled, the mission that the Father had given him for our salvation,

It's done.

2- The last request in the discussion - Jesus' teachings are different from most religious teachings

He was self-sufficient, and was often challenged by those who heard his teachings.

It was drawn. On some occasions Jesus wanted to open their eyes by asking them questions.

Deep, open to the truth. Jesus, in the face of his opponents, referred to the Bible as

The ultimate power is invoked. In the parable of the vineyard, Jesus told a story that

To the consciences of those who heard him, who did not accept him as the Son of God (Luke

16:20- (17) It hurt.

Introduction 88


In this parable, the result of the expulsion of the owner's son was that the garden was taken from the unbelieving Jews.

It was taken and given to those who had accepted God's message. But the hearers cried out

They said, “Never shall it be so” (verse 16). Jesus referred to the Old Testament in

He answered, “The stone which the builders rejected, the same is become the head of the corner” (verse 17).

The Old Testament spoke at this moment appropriate to the circumstances of Jesus, because the Bible

It is absolutely powerful and would negate their objections.

Jesus' opponents often tried to trap him with clever questions.

One day the Sadducees, who did not accept the resurrection, thought that

Reject the hypothesis of resurrection with the example of a woman who married seven brothers, and

They said, "On the day of resurrection, whose brother will she be?" (Matthew 23:22-33).

Jesus answered them, “You are mistaken, because you reject the Scriptures and the power of God.”

"You have not found it" (verse 29) and taught them a short lesson from the Old Testament:

For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels.

God is in heaven. But as for the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was said

God said to you, "I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob"?

“God is not the God of the dead, but of the living” (Matthew 22:30-32).


This discussion ended with this statement from God: "I am he," but Abraham, Isaac

And Jacob has already passed away from this world, but God is still their God and He proved that

There is life after death and resurrection. It is interesting to note that just as Jesus

God spoke in terms that were "read."

On another occasion, when the Pharisees questioned Jesus about the actions of his disciples in

Introduction 89


They challenged him on the Sabbath, and Jesus answered them in this way: "Is it in the

Have you not read the Torah? (Matthew 5:12) Their sin was not only their neglect of the Torah, but

Their fault was not understanding the true meaning of the Torah. Therefore, God advised them

For example, if you had understood what this means, "I desire mercy, not sacrifice," the innocent

"You would not have condemned him" (verse 7, quoted from the book of Hosea 6:6)

Jesus repeatedly used the Old Testament as a basis for his argument with his opponents.

Finally, he used it. Even when faced with a serious accusation of blasphemy, his response was this:

“Is it not written in your Torah?” (John 10:34) “…the correct use of

The Old Testament is undeniable, and it was enough for its opponents to know that the Old Testament was so.

It is said, so that they may accept it.


The clear teachings of Christ from the Old Testament

Christ personally came to the Old Testament for guidance and service to others, absolute assurance.

No one could have had such confidence in the Bible, except

Have faith that the words are from God.

The fact is that we have much to argue about the nature of the Bible, through

We have not found Jesus, because his contemporaries never asked him anything about the validity of the Old Testament.

They did not ask, because they also had a superior view of the Old Testament and had faith in it.

They believed that the letter was sacred. However, in some of Jesus' scattered teachings,

There are several simple statements about the Old Testament that indicate his knowledge of the nature of

This is the book. Here we will point out some of its most important teachings.

1- Matthew 17:5-18- Because Jesus rejected the official religion of many of his contemporaries

Introduction 90


He was questioned, accused of disregarding the Old Testament and rebelling against it.

In response to this accusation, he responded with words that reflected his view.

He was in relation to this book:

"Do not think that I have come to abolish the Torah or the Prophets. I have not come to

Let us not make void, but rather until I finish. For I tell you every mirror, until heaven and earth

Not a jot, not a jot, not a do

"Be ye therefore" (Matthew 5:17-18).


Jesus, using the terms "Torah" and "Prophets," refers to all the writings of the covenant.

Atiq pointed out. He said that these writings look to the future, to a time when

God's plan will be fulfilled. Everything these verses say is absolutely true and must be completely understood.

It has been realized and in confirmation of his point of view, even to the smallest letter or point in

They are Hebrew alphabets, he pointed out.

Therefore, with these words, Jesus affirms the absolute validity of the Old Testament even in its most detailed aspects.

Its contents declare. Some of these treatises, such as those that describe the system

They have paid the sacrifice, they have been fulfilled in Jesus Christ, but as the Word of God in

The Old Testament remains.

2- John 10:34-36 - One of the oldest statements regarding the nature of the book

The Holy Spirit is found in Christ's defense of his own claim to divinity. Christ in response to

The accusation of blasphemy made an interesting reference to the Old Testament:

"Is it not written in your Torah, 'I said, "You are gods'?" Then

If those to whom the word of God came are called gods, it is impossible that

Introduction 91


The Scriptures will be destroyed. Will the one whom the Father has sanctified and sent into the world be destroyed?

"They say, 'You are blaspheming,' because I said, 'I am the Son of God.'" (John

34:10 (36)


Christ's argument was that "if the Bible says that the judges of Israel were a man

"They were called gods," without saying anything blasphemous, so how can you call me that?

"I claim to be the Son of God, do you accuse me of blasphemy?"

When Jesus declared with certainty that He was greater than the judges of the Old Testament and the Son of God

This verse from the Psalms was used to dismiss the immediate accusation of blasphemy so that he could

Give his opponents a chance to think more about the truth of his claim (verses

37-.(38)

However, the crux of these discussions is that the Old Testament will not be “erased.”

Jesus is one of the "gods" of Psalms 82:6, which Jesus refers to in the form of the phrase "Torah"

He used (verse 34) to show that not only the commandments in the Old Testament, but all

He considers the Old Testament to be authentic. He explains and interprets this synonymous phrase in the form of "Torahs".

He declared that the Old Testament was inviolable.

The term "aborted" is usually used to express the loss of the power of the commandments and, as a result, their abrogation.

It would work if it were.

Jesus taught that the Old Testament has a nature that cannot be destroyed and

It is abrogated and every word of it is valid.

3- Matthew 4:19-19 - Another part of the New Testament, although not directly

It has nothing to do with the nature of the Bible, but rather expresses Christ's understanding of the Old Testament.

Introduction 92


In his discussion of marriage, Jesus quoted from Genesis 2:24.

When we read these verses in Genesis, it seems that

It is a guidance from Moses and has the origin of human thought, not the direct word of God.

God.

In any case, Jesus relates this verse to God and says, "But

Have you not read that at the beginning the Creator created them male and female...?'' This sentence or verse from it

It is not the style of verses to begin with the phrase "Thus says the Lord." Each

A phrase in the Old Testament is the word of God, even though it was written and uttered by human tongues.

They have become.


Our view of the teachings of Christ
Jesus had a high view of the Old Testament. The Old Testament was, to him, the Word of God.

The inspiration was God. Many liberal critics of the Old Testament who give it little value

They claim, they declare, that Jesus believed in the inerrant Bible.

Several explanations for why they still refer to the Bible as

They deny a valuable book, and at the same time they say that Jesus is an authentic Bible.

He had faith, they exist.

Some believe that Jesus adapted himself to the beliefs of his contemporaries. He

The influence and authority of the Bible is due to the fact that those who heard its teachings believed that

The Bible is inspired, he cited it, but he himself did not believe it. Such a definition

It is not true for at least two reasons. First, the contents of the Bible make this clear.

It is said that Jesus was challenged by his contemporaries when he did not agree with their views.

Introduction 93


He wouldn't stop. So why should he have to rely on the familiarity with the book's errors?

Holy, apply yourself? Second, since Jesus believed that he and

His mission is to fulfill the prophecies of the Old Testament, but at the same time he must believe

It is impossible that the Old Testament is simply human writings full of errors.

Others say that when Jesus became human, he knew

And awareness became limited. This limitation included the possibility of erroneous ideas. Such

The accusation has many answers, but only two answers will suffice for this accusation. First

That limitation does not necessarily include error. If Jesus were speaking about the Bible,

He had based his teachings on that, he was making mistakes, then another problem arose.

He trusted him, and his other teachings were of no value to believers. Testimony

H.C.G.M.O.L. in relation to this issue should be evaluated by every Christian person.

"Bishop Mull writes in relation to Christ," he absolutely trusted the Bible.

Although this book contains complex puzzles, I didn't read it with my eyes closed.

But with all due respect to this book, for the sake of Christ's view of it, full trust

I have.
    (John Battersby Harford and Frederick Charles Mac Donald, The Life of

Bishop Moule. London: Hodder and Stoughton, 1922, P.138).

Introduction 94




7

The Bible is inspired and inerrant.


Are all parts of the Bible equally inspired? Is it all the same?

Are the words of the Bible inspired? Are the teachings of the Bible inspired in this sense?

Is the Bible inerrant? These questions are about the nature of the Bible.

They are the subject and focus of discussions. A brief review of the history of the hypothesis of inspiration from time.

The New Testament helps us understand the church's position in relation to the Bible.


Oral universal inspiration
Jesus and the writers of the Bible have a positive view of the inspiration of the Bible.

Holy, in the sense of universal oral inspiration, had different interpretations of this situation.

We read it by Bible teachers. Charles Hodge, professor of theology, wrote about inspiration in

The phrase "an infiltration of the Holy Spirit into the thoughts of certain individuals who have been chosen to carry out the

It is defined as "without error, the thought and will of God prepares."

Benjamin B. Warfield is perhaps the greatest advocate of inspiration.

The Bible, which was written in the last century, defined inspiration as follows:

"The supernatural influence on the writers of the Bible is by the Spirit of God, who

Introduction 95


Their writings acquire an inspired value through the control of the Holy Spirit in inspiration.

The Bible guarantees its infallibility. Certain individuals in a way

Supernaturally and under the influence of the Holy Spirit, the Word of God was revealed without error in the original manuscripts.

They wrote. This hypothesis includes two important facts: (1) the domain of inspiration and (2) the stages of inspiration.

1- The domain of inspiration - The domain of inspiration is defined in a comprehensive and verbal manner.

The meaning of the phrase "all Scripture" is that the entire Bible is inspired and the entire Bible is

The Bible is the product of God's inspiration. However, it is possible for the Bible to be a secular book.

It seems that we do not mean to say that all of the Bible is on one level,

They are inspired. For example, certain sections of the Book of Chronicles, such as the Epistle to the

The Romans are not centered on the Christian faith, but they are also at a lower level.

They are inspired. We can compare the Bible to our own body. Sections

They don't care about the heart, but they are still the living parts of our body.

In the same way, different parts of the Bible fulfill different functions.

They give, some are more subordinate than the rest, but they are all a whole organization.

They are found. Universal inspiration means that the entire Bible contains a certain degree of inspiration.

Some of its contents are a direct revelation from God, while others are

Other sections, such as genealogical writings, are obviously written for the writers.

They had access to historical documents to write. But this difference in the level of inspiration

The difference is not in inspiration. Inspiration refers to the written word. The inspiration of the Bible

It is the Scriptures that Paul called "God-breathed" (2 Cor.

Timothy (3:16)

Introduction 96


Such a comprehensive concept of inspiration in the view of Jesus and the writers of the Bible,

It is obvious. They make a distinction between the inspired and semi-inspired parts of the Bible.

They were not, and they believed the entire Bible to be completely inspired.

Denying the universal inspiration of the Bible requires judgment, based on what inspiration is.

What is and what is not. Such judgment has no place in the Bible and is a limitation.

The Bible is kept in the church, but its ultimate power is left to curiosity.

Critics who consider it semi-inspirational.

J.C. Ryle, Bishop of Liverpool and nineteenth-century writer, died with a dangerous result.

This image is shown:

If we cast any doubt on the universal inspiration of any part of the Bible, the Word of God

We have called it a lie. Such doubt not only poisons the source, but also the fountainhead.

Any doubt in this matter endangers our religious foundation. Any doubt in

This is like a worm crawling on the root of theology, and in this way it is permitted

We have seen that the worm has eaten away the root, and if the branches, leaves, and fruit have rotted away,

We shouldn't be surprised. I know the whole subject of inspiration is difficult, but what about

What I want to say is that despite some of the problems that we may not be able to solve,

The only sound and defensible ground is to hold fast to the assumption that each season and

Every verse and every word in the Bible is inspired by God. We should not take this principle for granted.

The great deity is denied simply because we apparently cannot digest it.

Let's wash.

Introduction 97


The meaning of the fact that the inspiration of the Holy Book is comprehensive is that every word of it

It is inspired. Prophets were those through whom God put His word (cf. Jeremiah

(1:9) The apostle Paul speaks of the words that the Holy Spirit teaches man.

(1 Corinthians 13:2) The words of the Bible are accepted as the words of God. (See Matthew 2:13)

(5) In several cases, Jesus and other biblical writers discussed the

It was a specific word from the Bible. Jesus used the phrase "gods" in

Psalms as a key to convicting those who accused him of blasphemy

God’s promise in Genesis to the “seed” was used (John 10:34-35).

It is Abraham, not "descendants," and this was an important point in Paul's discussion with the Galatians.

                                                               (Galatians) 3:16

Apart from these biblical signs that seem certain, there is actually no way

There is no other way to know that the Bible is inspired than to accept it.

Inspiration is comprehensive, meaning every word of it is inspiration. Speaking of inspired thoughts, and

No, speech is impossible. Thoughts are formed from words and expressed in words.

The correct meaning of a statement is directly in the use of words. Often such reasoning

It turns out that focusing on the words in the Bible leads to a loss of specificity.

Spirituality becomes your thoughts. But as Drake Savor says, "the spirit of thought is

"Words are transmitted." The word can be called an organ of thought, which is related to the thought of the soul.

It forgives, so if the word is incomprehensible, the thought is also incomprehensible. Everything is contaminated.

And it becomes spiritless. Therefore, saying, "spirit without word" is equivalent to "word without spirit."

"And those words are spiritless (meaningless)." Jesus also considered this important point.

Introduction 98


He said about his words, "The words that I speak to you are spirit and are life."

"(John 6:23) Charles Spurgeon put this well in a short sermon.

"We are convinced and believe that every word in the Bible is true."

The verbal inspiration is of the Holy Spirit. Indeed, we believe; there is no other kind of inspiration.

"No. If they take the words away from us, the exact meaning of the sentence will be lost."

When we speak of every word in the Bible as "inspired," we must

Let us explain that it refers specifically to the early copies of the Bible and/or their writers.

We point out that we have not found any surviving early manuscripts of the Bible in

We do not have the authority. The current Bibles are copies of the originals.

Many of these writings, and when the writers were copying,

(According to historical evidence), it has enabled teachers to criticize through knowledge.

Literary texts, to obtain manuscripts very close to the original version. Certainly

There are a few differences that we have not yet been able to find their exact equivalent in the original version.

We will get the original. Therefore, if we want to talk technically, we should say book.

Our current Holy Mother, while the original oral message was written by men who

God had chosen them, and the inspiration was complete.

2- Stages of Inspiration - The precise nature of the stages of inspiration, even with regard to multiple works

What God has done in man is still a mystery. How God created man

He makes us born again and then does something in the heart of man so that a believer

It's like a son, it's an unknown. We're definitely always aware of such developments.

We are not aware of it internally. We believe that God, even though we are also at work, is with us.

Introduction 99


He works to fulfill His will. The Apostle Paul spoke of the connection between man and divine action, saying:

"He who exhorted the believers in Philippi, spoke, 'He worked out his own salvation...'"

For it is God who works in you” (Philippians 2:12-13).

The theory of biblical inspiration teaches us that God, through His Spirit,

The writers of the Bible worked in such a way that their individual personalities were also reflected in the

The message was delivered. Divine inspiration for some of them, including fire (Jeremiah).

Or the roar of the lion (Amos) has been very strong, while other things

They had no sign of such divine power. Despite the differences in spiritual experiences

The writers of the Bible, the final product of their work, are equal to the inspiration of God.

Signs of personal differences in the writing of the Bible are easily discernible.

The poetic style of the Psalms contrasts with the analytical and logical themes in

The writings of the Apostle Paul. A brief study of the writings of the Apostle John and

Luke reveals their stark differences in their language and writing style.

Jeremiah is often called the "weeping prophet" because of the mournful style of his writing.

In addition to differences in writing style and language, the characteristics of the book's authors

The Holy Spirit is usually identified through messages written from first-hand experiences.

It will happen.

Isaiah's dream, when he sees the Lord "sitting on a throne, high and lifted up,"

It was directly related to his call to the ministry (Isaiah chapter 6). The Psalmist

When he writes:

I have been young and now I am old, and I have never seen a righteous man forsaken or abandoned.

Introduction 100


His descendants will be beggars for bread (Psalm 37:25).


The psalmist expresses his experience in these verses. The culture that the scribes

The Bible in which they lived was revealed through their writings.

Numerous references to Paul and allegories from Greco-Roman, wrestling, and legal life,

It is a historical reflection of his life.

All these human elements show that the Bible is indeed a written

It is human and divine. How could the Holy Spirit have been one of the instruments of

It is not entirely clear to us what human beings used to convey God's messages, but

Interesting harmony in the writings of the Bible regarding the coming of the Son of God

Earth, there is. The Holy Spirit descended upon Mary, who was actually human and free from sin.

However, through him and a supernatural connection and the usual stages of development, the boy

God took on human flesh and was born as a human. He was in

The perfect personality of man and God was born.

Even Mary and her sinful human nature did not contaminate Jesus' essence, and it was not a mistake.

And the sin of man did not affect him, and he was without blemish or sin. The Spirit of God was upon the writers.

The sinner descended and had them on it until their writings became divine-human. All

These steps are still a mystery.


                                                               Inspiration without error

Does the universal oral inspiration of religion mean that the inspiration is infallible? That is, are the teachings

Is the Bible inspired, the inerrant word of God, or is it the Bible?

Introduction 101


This question is very important and deserves complete attention.

1- The concept of infallibility - The topic of infallibility is often confused in scientific terminology.

Some believe that the Bible is inerrant, but it is not infallible.

They deny it. Others do not like the word "infallible" because it has

It is a negative charge. So it is better to first understand the meaning of these two terms here.

The dictionary first defines the concept of "non-slip" in the phrase "without slipping, something

It defines "not subject to error", and in the chapter "without error" it says "exceptional".

From error; from mistake, without slipping ". If another concept is used for normal use

"Without a slip" and "without a mistake," let's not say that these two phrases are necessarily synonymous.

The best place to clarify the meaning of these two terms is the Bible.

It is. Being without slippage generally refers to the basic message of the Bible in

The relationship with salvation and man's relationship with God. From another perspective, being without error in the relationship

It is with all the contents of the Holy Book. With these concepts, anyone can

Defend the inerrancy of the Bible, not its inerrancy. So that we may know

The speaker or writer must understand exactly how these phrases are used.

Let's be very careful. We normally use these two terms interchangeably.

We do, but in the case of the Bible, inerrancy means that the Bible is without error.

It is, there is no error in it, and all its contents are in accordance with the truth.

2- Biblical Teachings on Inerrancy - Although the Bible teaches

He did not use the phrase "infallible," but the assumption of the Bible's inspiration and

Writings that explain the nature of the contents of the Bible, the concept of its inerrancy

Introduction 102


They deliver.

We have seen so far that Christ and the writers of the Bible believed that all

The Bible is the inspired Word of God. The apostle Paul declared, "All Scripture is

"(The Bible) is inspired by God" (2 Timothy 3:16), and Jesus Christ is the Lord.

It is said that the Bible “will not be blotted out” (John 10:35). Also see

We have seen how they treated various parts of the Old Testament as absolutely authentic writings.

They have been quoted as authentic, and nowhere in the Holy Book are there any indications that

We have not found any part of the Old Testament to be invalid or uninspired. Definitions

Another special argument has been put forward in support of its absolute infallibility. The Psalmist

“The whole sentence of your word is truth.” (Psalm 160:119; “All your statutes are

"The law of the Lord is perfect...the testimony of the Lord is sure" (Psalm 111:7);

"...the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether" (Proverbs 19:7). (9)

Likewise, it is said, “Every word of God is pure” (Proverbs 5:30).

Each writer acknowledged the value and authority of the Bible. Luke said:

The purpose of his writings is "so that you may confirm the truth of the word in which you have been taught,

"Wilderness" (Luke 4:1) John also confirmed the truth of God's word (John 19:35).

When we consider these words alongside the general teachings on the inspiration and authority of Scripture,

We consider it sacred, it is impossible to imagine the Holy Book as being subject to corruption.

Such teachings are absolutely consistent with the claims of the biblical writers and demonstrate

They spoke and wrote the word of God. God is the only true God (Isaiah 40:11).

(16:65; and God never lies (Titus 2:1). If the Bible

Introduction 103


contains error, it cannot be accepted as God's revelation of truth. When the word

From the reality of the Bible, its meaning must be explored more deeply.

For example, we may believe a statement to be true, but it is actually a lie.

We may say things that are not scientifically correct. Therefore, what

The writer is trying to say, it is important. By applying this to the Bible, we mean

This is because the Bible is infallible according to the intent of its writers.

Several questions need to be asked: First, is the writer lying?

Did he lie to himself? On the journey of Genesis, Moses was exposed to Satan's lies.

Where he told Eve that if they ate the forbidden fruit, they would not die, he did not mention

(Genesis 4:3) There is no error in this account.

Secondly: We must ask whether the writer intended to convey his message in common language.

Write or in technical and scientific language? We are talking about the sunrise and sunset, which

Our view is true, but scientifically the Earth moves, not the Sun.

Condemned are their media when they announce the times of sunrise and sunset.

We will not give false information.

Third, the writer may be talking about a number of processes, not the intention.

If the number you have given is an approximation, it is a lie.

It is not said.

And finally, we need to assess whether the writer wants to use metaphors.

Slow or scientific. Some may consider the writers of the Bible to be knowledgeable about the universe.

Their identification is in reference to the “four corners of the earth” (Isaiah 12:11) or the “windows of the

Introduction 104


"Heaven" (Genesis 11:7) is condemned to lie. When such language is used in the

be an understandable allegory, as was undoubtedly the author's intention,

There is no error.

Sometimes in a command line error, when the basis of a sentence is based on an example

It is not common, the discussion of errors is raised. We want to talk about grammatically correct

Whether we write it correctly or incorrectly has nothing to do with the fairness of the matter. Aside from those reasons

It's good for such cases that the writers of the Bible used different grammatical styles.

They have spoken, it exists.

Therefore, being without slippage means when, with regard to the concept in question,

The writer, showing complete accuracy in the statements of the Bible, realizes that the Bible

We are completely honest in all our statements. Primary Bible Teaching in Relation to the Program

God's great forgiveness is through Christ. But in achieving this salvation, God entered our world

It is possible for us to encounter it in our history and geography, and therefore the story of God's salvation

Like spiritual truths, it is another realm of awareness. This book was written in eternity.

It is inspired and the infallible Word of God. This does not mean that

Its writers were more knowledgeable about history and science than our scholars, or at all.

Scientific fields are absolutely omniscient. This means that what we know is not

They say they are free from misguidance and deviation.


Infallibility in Church History

The faith of the church alone cannot be our ultimate source for the validity of God's Word, but

The Bible itself is our ultimate source. However, it is interesting to know that the leaders

Introduction 105


What does the Church say about this? In the second century AD, Justin Martyr, one of the

The Church Fathers said, "We should not focus our attention on the dialect of those who inspired

They have become like Benjamin, but focused on the Word of God that has moved them,

                                                                        Let's show it.

Irenaeus, his contemporary and Bishop of Lyons, declared, "All parts of

The Bible, as God has given it to us, is perfectly balanced.

"Augustine is one of the greatest men in the history of the Church in relation to the Bible."

The Holy One spoke of the "pen of the opposite spirit" and testified in a letter of guilt, "I am for

I have great respect for all the writings that have been called canonical, and I firmly believe that

"None of their writers made mistakes in writing." Martin Luther said.

"The entire Bible is dedicated to the Holy Spirit," and "The Bible is

"It can't be wrong."

Calvin repeatedly emphasized his belief in the inspiration of the Bible, saying:

"We firmly believe that the image of God in the Bible that God has given us is

"A tool called man, and a role is tied to the language of God."

Such statements have been made time and again by church leaders since the eighteenth century,

It has been expressed when critical views have been brought to bear on the validity of the Bible.

Kirsop Like's statements in the 1925 Outstanding Documents well reflect the tradition of the Church in

The relationship is summarized as follows:

Educated people who have little knowledge of historical theology are mistaken.

They imagine that fundamentalism is a strange new form of thinking. But

Introduction 106


This is not so. This is an inadequate and superficial examination of theology.

All Christians believed in the body. For example, how many people in

Christian churches in the eighteenth century regarding inerrancy and inspiration

Did they doubt the existence of the Bible? Maybe there were too few? No! Maybe now

Fundamentalists are wrong, but it is we who have fallen away from traditions, not

They and I regret the fate of those who try to reconcile with the fundamentalists.

Discuss the validity of the Bible. The Bible and the writings of

Theology is the foundation of the church.
(Kirsop Lake, the Religion of yesterday and tomorrow Boston:

Houghton, 1926, P.61

Introduction 107




8

Examining Problems in the Bible



In a careful study of the Bible, we encounter problems within its pages.

Skeptics and critics use these problems to question the authenticity of the Bible,

However, Bible-believing teachers always address these problems.

They identified and tried to harmonize them with the teachings of the Bible on inspiration.

They are creators.


The reason for these problems
We may assume, based on the hypothesis of inspiration, that there is no problem with the book.

There is no Bible, but a little consideration of the nature of the Bible will disprove this idea.

It is amazing when we consider the periods and the variety of cultures in the Bible.

It won't be if we are faced with things that we cannot understand today.

Our current culture is not like the culture of our fathers, their behavior or the terms they used.

They used it, depending on their way of life, which may have been

We are not aware. Archaeological and historical research is of great help in solving problems.

They have shown.

Introduction 108


An interesting example of the enlightenment of the nature of these problems is historical writings.

It is related to the era of the kings of Israel. For long periods throughout history

At least two types of calendars were used, one based on the spring and the other on the fall.

Which started in the fall.

In addition, Hebrew historians used two methods to calculate the years of the kings' reigns.

They used different systems. According to one of these systems, each part of

The calendar was related to a year of the reign. Therefore, for example, using

Current calendar: If a king ascended the throne in December of a year, the first year would be

His reign ends in December and his second period begins in January.

According to another system, the first year of the reign is no different from the previous year.

The Sultanate has been established, starting in January. It is obvious that without such knowledge

systems, many historical problems arise that were impossible to solve.

At the same time, archaeologists and historians continue their research to find data

Recently, such problems have decreased.

Some of the problems with the Bible come down to the fact that we

We do not have access to the original copies. The Bible that we have now,

It is based on manuscripts that have been copied many times.

No matter how careful these manuscripts and copies were, they still

There is a possibility of error. An obvious example of such an error is found in the numbers

Mentioned in 2 Kings 8:24 and 2 Chronicles 9:36.

According to the Second Book of Kings, when Jehoiachin was eighteen years old,

Introduction 109


He sits on the throne and reigns for three years before being captured. But the first book

Contemporary chronicles say that he was eight years old when he ascended the throne, and

He reigned for three years and ten days. It is obvious that such a contrast in numbers resulted in

It is a copying error, because the phrase 18 in Hebrew is written as "eight" and

"Ten" was written, and it seems that in the Second Chronicles of the Days the phrase "Ten" was written.

It is not.

Numbers 8 and 10 are correctly connected in the Book of Kings, but in

The Book of Chronicles of Days, from the number of "10," has deduced an additional ten days.

Indeed, some of the Greek manuscripts and Syriac translations

The Book of Chronicles records that Jehoiachin was 18 years old when he became king.

Such copying errors are not only the cause of numerous discrepancies, but also

It is an indication that such differences exist and they warn us that it is possible.

There are errors in the Bible. When we think about the true nature of the Bible,

We should expect such differences. The Spirit of God dwells in real people.

They worked to write the Bible. In this work, God shaped their personalities and their lives.

Considering the conditions of the historical period in which they lived, he did not ignore them and

He did not create a situation where they all spoke alike. Each of them spoke the word of God.

They wrote based on their own circumstances, different needs, and unique dialects.

It is not surprising, then, that there is not perfect harmony throughout the Bible.

Indeed, it was possible to use such coordination as a sign against the authority of the book.

The Holy Quran is based on the existence of collusion and collaboration between the writers and the fabrication of events.

Introduction 110


Thus, the presence of problems does not invalidate the hypothesis of inspiration. Throughout history

The Church, with full awareness of these problems, confesses the inspiration of the Bible.

They are looking for solutions and answers to many of these problems.

Their inability to respond to these problems is reason enough to abandon what they call the body of faith.

They have and they are not expelled from the Holy Book.


Ideological and moral problems

When we examine some of the doctrinal and moral statements in the Bible

We ask, several questions are raised. Most of such differences are resolved when we know the book

What the Holy One practically says, they will be lifted up by themselves. However, in other cases,

The disagreement arises because critics of the Bible, with the ethics of the Bible,

They do not agree. This is where, if we assume that the opponents' view is correct,

Let's imagine these differences as arising from problems of inspiration.

David's census of the people is often seen as a theological paradox.

In 2 Samuel 1:24 we read that God raised up David to rule over the people of Israel and

number Judah. But in 1 Chronicles 1:21 we read that Satan

"He persuaded David to number Israel." Some say that these two verses refer to

There are two separate theological arguments: one that God is in control of the world, and

Another refers to Satan's control over the world. When we lose a little of the connection between God and

And if we have knowledge of Satan, the solution to this problem is simple. God often speaks to Satan.

It allows him to exercise his will to achieve greater goals. In this

It is the case that God is the ultimate cause for Satan's instigation of David.

Introduction 111


In this act, it is introduced. Another example is when God releases Satan.

To attack Job (Job 12:1 and 2:6) and to send another evil spirit to afflict him.

It is Saul (1 Samuel 14:16).

To find a solution to such problems, it is important that we fully understand the

Let us have the teachings of the Bible regarding the above matters. A verse is like an aspect of

It is a subject, and another verse seems to address a different aspect of that subject.

While these two aspects may seem contradictory, they are actually both parts of the same thing.

They are a reality.

In addition, we must pay attention to the meaning of the words in that relevant section. The problem

The apparent difference between Paul and James about being justified, when the special way is used

If we understand the meaning of similar words, it is easily solved. Paul declared that we

Faith, apart from works, makes us righteous (Romans 5:4; Ephesians 8:2-9). But James

It says that faith and works make us righteous (James 2:24). If we use the phrase

Let us examine “faith” and “action,” and we will realize that what James meant by “faith” is

It is the kind of faith that even the devils have (James 2:19). He says that such

Faith and beliefs are not enough for salvation. A living and dynamic faith that is manifested in life and action is needed.

It is sufficient for salvation. In Jacob's view, work is the fruit of saving faith.

It is.

In another sense, Paul means by “faith” a pure belief that is demonstrated in action.

He speaks of a faith that “works through love” (Gal.

(6:5) When he contrasts “faith” and “works,” he means the essence of

Introduction 112


It is a law that people can use to attain the necessary merit before God.

They will be.

Thus, when we consider the meaning of these two phrases in their own context,

Both Paul and James believe in the same thing. Each of them focuses on a specific aspect.

They have dealt with a reality. Paul believed that we are justified by faith alone,

But faith is alive. James also believed that we are justified by faith,

But, not a faith like the faith of the devils.

In relation to spiritual teachings, we must be careful to understand exactly what the Bible teaches.

It teaches and we should pay sufficient attention to the contents of that part of the Bible.

For example, it is sometimes said that the Old Testament allows polygamy,

But the New Testament does not allow this, and this has caused a kind of contradiction. The book

The Holy Prophet also says that there have been several official marriages, even some of which

The leaders acted in the flesh, but never said that God's plan for marriage,

That's how it was.

We must grow in the revelation of God and His demands in all areas of morality.

Let's keep in mind the human being.

When we move from the Old Testament to the New Testament, we realize that the relationship

Man has become closer to God and has gained greater awareness of God; in

As a result, God demands greater things from man. This does not mean religion in any way.

That God has changed His perfect standard. Rather, it means that God

He carries out his standard generously and according to human conditions. A father

Introduction 113


Then he can deal with certain behaviors from his child that he showed at the age of 5.

Be, not at 18 years old. This does not mean that an action is right at a time.

And at another time, it is wrong, but rather a sign that this standard is based on stages of development.

It is possible. In this historical period of the Bible, God had a kind of encounter with

Humans have.

One of the greatest obstacles to accepting the inspiration of the Bible was found there.

It happens that we are faced with the commandments that God gave to His people regarding

The Israelites were commanded by God to conquer the land.

Promised to destroy all their enemies (Deuteronomy 16:20-18).

We would like to imagine this reality as arising from the spirit of revenge that sometimes

The people of Israel did this to their enemies (Psalms 137, 109, 55, 59, 79).

Not only do these passages from the Bible symbolize the practice of immoral views, but they are also contrary to

Other teachings of the Bible, especially regarding our responsibility to love others,

They are enemies (Luke 6:35-36).

It is not our goal to discuss all of the teachings of the Bible in these areas.

Let's sit down. However, several factors are of particular importance. Throughout the book

The Holy God is not only a God with infinite mercy and love, but also a righteous judge,

It has been revealed, but when we consider the reality of the future judgment, which is clearly stated in the Old Testament,

It has been prophesied (Revelation 11:19-12), we realize

There is absolutely no difference between the God of the Old Testament and the New Testament. In fact, Jesus

Most of the New Testament writers speak of the eternal death of those who reject God.

Introduction 114


They did not look, the word has spoken. The cries of God's vengeance on God's enemies and His purposes from the tongue

The psalmist is only a sign of the people's participation with God, and in connection with the performance of

Justice and truth are. These cries point to a time when there was no sin and

Justice will prevail.

We can see the depth of this enmity in the killing of Christians. God bless you.

It was raised against the enemies of the Christians who killed them until the cup of their wickedness was filled.

(Genesis 16:15, Leviticus 24:18-30) Then, because of the great increase of sins throughout the land,

had corrupted society, God began judgment through His people. Professor

Arnett has explained these conditions well:



The Canaanite tribes filled the cup of their sins with their shameful sins. When

They were punished. All of them, women and children, were destroyed. This is a crime.

It was not God, but rather He was concerned about those who had trampled on the laws of justice. When

Others took them and their families as slaves on a ship, that ship

It became a place full of evil and then they all disappeared in a sudden flood.

Who is to blame? One of the most frightening aspects of sin is the outcry that...

A whirlwind sucks everything around it and drags it into the depths...women.

The Canaanites were immoral and prevented the Israelite men from following the way of truth, and

It was also better for Canaanite children to be weaned than to be

They will grow and worship idols and commit evil.
(W. Arnlt, Bible Difficulties, St. Louis, Concordia publishing house, 1932, PP.

53-54.

Introduction 115


Historical problems

Historical objections to the Bible, whether from external sources, or in relation to

Its so-called internal contradictions are raised. External objections to the book

The sacred is usually considered ordinary due to historical assumptions regarding supernatural matters,

Not practical. For example, critics, evaluating people and their culture, say that five

The first book of the Bible, called the Torah, cannot belong to the time of Moses.

They were illiterate, because the people were illiterate and Moses was not able to write. Then

The Code of Hammurabi was discovered and from then on the Bible was written around 1728 BC.

It was written in the order in which the Torah was written by Moses.

Another example is the secular history, which makes no mention of the place or places mentioned in the book.

They have come to the holy land, they have not, they are considered legendary. Miller Baros Archaeology

From Yale University, he points to the real source of such problems and writes:

Archaeology refutes the views of modern critics in many situations.

In numerous examples, it is observed that these views are based on false assumptions and

It is unreal and fabricated plans of historical development.

One of the most famous contemporary archaeologists and Jewish scholar Nelson Gluck,

He expresses his findings in relation to the historical reality of the Bible as follows:

In fact, he categorically stated that no archaeological discovery is devoid of references.

They are not the Bible. Archaeological standards, with certainty, confirm all historical details.

They have confirmed the Bible.

Introduction 116


With such statements, there is no longer any insistence that problems in this area have yet to be solved.

They are not, it is a kind of blind prejudice.

When we look at this term of historical contradictions in the Bible,

Given all this information, we have a plausible explanation for it. Variety of reports

The Gospels have been transformed from a single event into a series of problems. One of them is

The most prominent examples in this regard are Peter's denial and the crowing of the rooster.

Mark's account has the rooster crowing twice (30:14, 72), while Matthew and

Luke says that before the rooster crowed, Peter denied the Lord three times.

He will do (Matthew 34:26-75, 74; Luke 34:22; 60-61).

However, there is no direct contradiction here. Matthew and Luke are in opposition.

Or did Mark not say that the rooster crowed once? But only the crowing of the rooster.

If you remember that the "crow's crow" is a sign and expression for

It is the beginning of the day, then we can realize that these words are completely coherent.

According to the Gospel of Mark, 13:35, the Roman time is from evening to midnight.

It is called "the crowing of the rooster". But the rooster can crow earlier and in the middle of the night.

Read also. Matthew and Luke make the main point of Jesus' prophecy about Peter's

From the very beginning of the morning, which begins with the crowing of the rooster, he will deny him three times,

We are told that Mark went into more detail about Jesus' words than anyone else.

It is, and both reports are correct.

Problems related to the variety of reports such as what was said about the crowing of a rooster

Well, if we had certain principles in mind, they would be easily solved.

Introduction 117


Before anything else, we must be sure that the flow of the event is one, not two.

Similar flow. Second, we must remember that any writer can be

Guided by the Holy Spirit, there are different emphases even for the parts of the

Have a different conversation.


Scientific problems
Most of the scholarly problems raised about the Bible today have their roots in

From one to the term is the scientific approach to events that involve supernatural matters.

They take.

Today, miracles are considered myths because they contradict the laws of nature.

They are, they have been denied. However, when a reality is accepted in the name of God, no one

A logical reason to deny His supernatural intervention, wherever and whenever necessary.

They know that there is no such thing. Another objection is that the Bible's account of the actions of demons is actually

Based on belief in unproven assumptions, not real knowledge, non-scientific and

It is a superstition.

These cases probably represent the greatest conflict between the Bible and the theory of evolution.

have come into existence. Since the theory of evolution has never been scientifically proven,

There is no basis for condemning the Bible as a myth. The hypothesis

Evolution is simply an unproven hypothesis that is accepted by scientists who believe in it.

The Bible and many interested parties do not agree with this hypothesis.

Gerald A. Kirkwood, who does not believe in the biblical origin of creation, is a writer.

It is written under the title The Application of Evolution (ELMS Ford, New York: Perganom).

Introduction 118


                                                                   Press 1960
In this book, he has mentioned seven basic principles for the theory of evolution. But

None of these principles have ever been proven.

There are other objections to the Bible. Among them is that the Bible lacks

Scientific information is correct, and one of the oldest examples in this regard is the

Jesus who says, “A mustard seed is smaller than all the other seeds” (Matthew 23:32)

They take and since botanists call the smaller seeds mustard seeds,

Therefore, Jesus was condemned for scientific error. Apart from the fact that we

We cannot accept such a statement from Jesus, based on his claim that he knew the truth.

You say, "Let's adapt," but if we use this word instead, it's completely

It is appropriate. Among the seeds that the Jews sowed, the mustard seed was the smallest.

It has been, for this reason the mustard seed has become the symbol of the smallest seed (Matthew 20:17).

                                                                    Luke (6:17

Jesus used this parable to illustrate a spiritual truth. If he

He only intended to express a scientific expression that would encompass all knowledge,

We can convict him of wrongdoing.


The original manuscripts were not without errors.
Objections to the inerrancy of the Bible arise from this.

It happens that we do not have the original copies. Hebrew manuscripts and

The Greek Bibles we have are complete copies of the original text.

They are not, so we do not have infallible writings to refer to.

Introduction 119


Some believe that since we do not have the original, then there is no point in discussing it.

It is in vain to claim that the Bible is inerrant and inspired.

Although such an argument may be logical, further examination shows

It shows that in such a perception, important facts are overlooked. In the first place

Our belief in the inspiration and inerrancy of the Bible ultimately rests on this claim.

It is not that we can prove that the Bible is without error, but that this fact

It is certain that Christ and the writers of the Bible taught us this truth, and this

That is, the belief in the infallibility of the original writings, even though they have been lost.

We all agree that the existing laws and standards of our country are based on

The basic standards, located at the National Standards Institute in Washington, D.C., are

They are not, but they correspond to them to some extent. Perhaps we should be aware of the existence of such a standard.

We should be aware, however, that even their imperfect use is based on

They have an absolute standard, it is worthy.

In the same way, our current Bible, even with its minor flaws, is valuable.

Because there is an absolute standard behind them.

Belief in the infallibility of the original is a sure way to reach the truth.

If we believe that the original and original Bible was without error,

is, then we can change the parts of it that contain scientific teachings

Let's make it as close to its original source as possible.

When we do not believe in the inerrancy of the original writings, with regard to

The apparent standard of truth, we can judge the Bible based on external standards.

Introduction 120


We accept it or reject it.

The belief in an error-free and unalterable original, in our view, in the use of

Our Bible today is influential.

However, we should not dismiss these objections without considering the closeness of the Bible.

Now let's take a look at the original version.

We have already seen some of the minor differences in the ancient versions of the Bible.

We have already mentioned that many of these writings that we have at our disposal support this possibility.

They provide technical support for professors to make the necessary comparisons. One of the professors

The New Testament by F.F. Bruce writes about the New Testament: "Readings of

Different from unresolved doubts,...an impact on historical events or faith and practice

"Christians will not pass by."

Other news in this context, it has been said: "It cannot be confirmed with complete certainty that

The nature of the current Bible is similar to the original version, especially in the case of the New Testament.

Currently, given the number of ancient manuscripts and translations and the ambiguities regarding

The oldest church writings are so obscure that they are practically unreadable.

Find the correctness of each questionable passage in one or more of these ancient authentic versions.

"Show".


Final review

Whenever we are faced with the subject of problems in the Bible, we should remember a few points:

Let's keep in mind that although there are still some unresolved problems

They have, but we must keep in mind that we can never interpret the Bible in terms of

Introduction 121


Its astonishing accuracy and phenomena compare with other ancient writings. Eric

Savar has mentioned some interesting facts in the following article:

Moses was fully trained in the wisdom of the Egyptians. What caused the Torah to be written?

without using the ancient Egyptian counting system, which Manto later used in his

His writings mentioned that the ancient Egyptians had been counting from thirty thousand years ago.

The year of Christ had begun, write? What about Daniel, who was educated in the sciences of the Chaldeans?

He was a wise man, and he was influenced to listen to the legend of the Chaldean monsters and the creation of the world.

Paul, who was familiar with the highest sciences of his time, asked why we cannot

His words echo Augustine's mocking objections to the hypothesis of points of opposition and

Or Ambrose's view that the sun sprinkled water on itself to cool down and

The extraordinary heat of the day (From Eternity to Eternity, Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1954),

(P.106) Let's find out?

Supernatural inspiration is the only way to the authenticity of the Bible in 66 letters and 1189

It is a season, especially when it is combined with the gross errors that have occurred in the human and

What about in the realm of theology, compared to other ancient writings? The number of problems solved

It is actually very rare. History has shown that when new knowledge appears,

It has been shown that many problems have been solved. So profound wisdom demands that

We don't always look at these problems as a problem, not that they are actually a problem.

Condemn the ultimate truth of the Bible to error. Despite all the discoveries

Archaeology to this day, those who are knowledgeable in this field tell us, this

The errors are no more than a superficial scratch compared to today's text.

Introduction 122


The positive signs regarding the hypothesis of universal inspiration are perfectly logical, which again is for

Let's wait for the newer clues that archaeology will reveal.

Augustine's view of the problems of the Bible is very logical. He

"He writes a letter to the crime": If anywhere, referring to a matter that is apparently true,

I disagree, I have doubts, I'm not saying the writing is flawed, the translator is accurate.

He did not convey the thoughts of the first writer, but rather, we say, I have conveyed the subject.

"I didn't understand..."


References
   ?1- William Arndt, Does the Bible Contract Itself

   (St. Louis: Concordia, 1967

   ) Bible Difficulties (ST. Louis Concordia, 1975

   John W. Haley, An Examination of the Alleged Discrepancies of the Bible.

Introduction 123




9

Bible Mission Center



The word “Canon” comes from a Greek word meaning “no,” and

It conveys the concept of a straight rod as a standard of measurement, and its other concept

It is a “permissible norm” and can be used in various ways.

Examples of permissible standards in ethics, art, and grammar. Paul used this word for

The principles of conduct used by Galatian Christians (Galatians 6:16).

In the early church, the "canon" referred to the writings that were authorized and part of the

They were considered the "Articles of Faith." The accepted writings authorized in the church, canonical

They were called "the canon of the Bible" which included a collection of writings in the form of

The first clear use of this phrase in the Bible was probably by Augustine.

He was the bishop of Alexandria around 350 AD.

When we talk about the canon of the Bible, we must be very aware that

What do we mean? Because the historical period of the collection of the 66 epistles of the Bible includes

It is an examination of the lives of those who have declared certain matters to be canonical. But this matter

It is not enough; the writings of the Bible are authentic in view of their inspiration.

Because these writings are the Word of God, they are canonical from the moment they were written.

Introduction 124


They were men of God in accepting these writings as canonical writings.

They knew that these writings were inherently canonical. As James Parker says,

"The New Testament Church offered us a canon, and this is something beyond the law."

Isaac Newton's gravity was. God created the law of gravity with his own creation, and with the New Testament canon

Through inspiration, he presented the messages to us one by one.
    (J.J. Parker, God Speaks To Man, London: Hodder - and Stoughton 1965,
(P. 81)
The reality is that human judgment in this matter has been a phase. But to say

It is not enough that human judgment is the key element in establishing the canon.

First, to determine the reality of something, there must be a criterion for reality.

In order for a person to confirm the inspiration of the Bible, he must call it inspired.

It does not, its inspiration is a prerequisite for human approval.

Secondly, this fact is the product of the historical stages of canonization, various writings

We have never heard of a church council that said, "We have this text."

"We investigated and came to the conclusion that it is good and should be included in the center."

Instead of consulting on the canonicality of a book, always base your opinion on

There have been scattered gatherings of scholars who previously declared that book canonical.

Facing some problems in terms of accurately identifying which details were accepted,

The council's decision was as follows: "These are books that have been previously accepted." Inspiration

The writings of the Bible were inspired by God, they were canonized by God. They were

They were preserved and then recognized by God's people as His inspiration and Word.

have been accepted as holy. L. Goshen in his ancient book called "Inspiration of the Holy Spirit"

Introduction 125


(Chicago: Moody Press, 1949), illustrates the steps of Bible selection with a picture of a

The woman walking in the garden has shown. She is walking in the garden of flowers.

One by one he picks until he fills a basket with flowers for himself. This is his flower basket.

The destination is the first flower that is picked. In this way, the focus is on the moment when the first

The inspired Scripture was given to man by God, and God has been among the people. In

These are the original writings that God gave, and his people received other books that God wanted.

They accepted the canon of the Bible as a means of completing it.


Old Testament Center

We have a complete historical account of the acceptance of each of the Old Testament books as canon.

We do not have any examples of its acceptance in terms of its writings.

We, the people of God, have it, with the Holy Bible.

The writings of Moses were immediately accepted as the authoritative word of God, as in the Exodus.

We read in 3:24, they were accepted:

Then Moses came and told the people all the words of the Lord and all these ordinances.

All the people answered with one voice, saying, “All the words which the Lord has spoken,

"We will bring it to you."


Later we read that Joshua's words were written in "the book of the law of God" (Joshua

.(26:24

The book of Samuel was also “written in a book and brought before God,” and this

It is a sign of the absolute validity of those messages in the community of God's people. Contemporary Daniel

Introduction 126


Young Jeremiah wrote Jeremiah's words when he wrote, "I Daniel told you the number of the years that the word

The Lord had revealed to the prophet Jeremiah about them, "I understood from the book... Daniel 2:9"

The word of God was found.

It is clear that God's people also considered the writings of prophets or God's spokesmen as

They accepted the word of God and proclaimed it publicly.

Knowledge of specific books leads to the question of greatness, based on the fact that

What are the criteria people use to identify and determine a specific book in the canon? Several

The proposal was put forward by liberal scholars who denied the inspiration of these writings.

These criteria are related to the age of the book. If the book was old, canonical

The problem is that other ancient books were not accepted.

Another criterion was that the book was written in Hebrew. However, other

The Hebrew Bible, including parts of the books of Daniel and Ezra, was not written in Hebrew.

They were, but they were written in Aramaic, and they were not accepted in the canon.

Another suggestion was that writings that were consistent with the Torah or the writings of Moses

are, were now recognized, while the rest of the Old Testament, which is consistent with

The writings of Moses, and other Jewish writings that were not in harmony with the Torah, were

They were not accepted by the center.

And finally, some have also suggested that any book that has religious value

be included in the canon. But there are also books that have religious value, such as

Books that Christians write today, but were never included in the canon of the Bible

They were not accepted.

Introduction 127


In the final analysis and analysis, in response to these ambiguities, ultimately to the subject of inspiration

We arrive at the conclusion that the books that were inspired by God were written by men,

They have now been diagnosed.

How do people recognize that particular writings have inspirational value?

Are they? There are two basic principles for such a diagnosis. The first principle is

The presence of men and women as prophets and prophetesses among the people. The people of God are divinely inspired.

They accepted the prophets who had the mission to convey God's inspiration to the people. Thus

The leadership conveyed its message through the performance of miracles and the prediction of future events and the nature of

The dynamic of their message gave evidence. A clear example of that was Moses, whom God gave to

He was given the power to prove to the people by performing miracles that he was the messenger of God (cf.

(Exodus 1:4-end).

The second principle was the work of the Spirit of God among the people so that they could hear the voice of God in speech.

Prophets, recognize. Jesus said: “My sheep hear my voice” (John

.(27:10

During the time of the Old Testament prophets, just like in the days of Jesus, some people,

Recognize the voice of God in prophetic messages as a normative guide to life.

They did not. People were encouraged to accept the Scriptures only through the influence of the Holy Spirit.

They were accepted as the authoritative word of God.

There are undoubtedly other practical factors for determining the prophetic nature of a text.

There have been genuine errors, of course, that have rendered parts of the writings devoid of prophetic nature.

It seems that differences of opinion in accepting the standard of the Word of God do not lead to its being accepted.

Introduction 128


Fragments of writings would be written. And finally, the acceptance of a treatise by

The people of the time in which it was written were one of the criteria for the acceptance of that treatise.

However, the accepted standards for accepting a book were that it was

Is it really prophetic and inspired by God or not?

Of course, in relation to Christians, the ultimate authority of the Old Testament lies in the statements of Jesus and

The New Testament writers find it. When Jesus came from the Law, the Prophets, and the Psalms

He was speaking (Luke 24:44) of the three aspects of the Hebrew canon which contained those books which

It is the same Old Testament today, he points out. These three aspects, or branches, of the Bible

which Jesus considered to be completely valid and canonical (John

.(35:10

In the New Testament writings, the inspiration of the entire Old Testament is confirmed and transmitted.

The authenticity of all its parts has also been confirmed. In the New Testament,

All the books of the Old Testament except Obadiah, Nahum, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther, and Song of Songs

Solomon and the community, it has been said. However, Nahum and Obadiah are parts of a

There were books in the Hebrew canon called the Twelve Prophets. The Epistles of Ezra and

Nehemiah was originally a book with historical origins. Esther, The Song of Solomon, and

The community belonged to a group of books called "Writings," and the Psalms

was also from that category. Considering this division, we can say that the writers

The New Testament is a canonical translation of every part of the Old Testament, conveying its message and belief.

They have all made announcements.

Introduction 129


Expansion of the Old Testament canon

The Bible has a lot to say about the actual stages of the collection of the various books.

Kanuni has not said anything, and there is no reason to be surprised, because these writings are acceptable.

The people of God were established. No leader or council to legislate it.

The writings were not required. Nevertheless, ideas of the gradual expansion of the canon, in

We have a choice.

The writings of Moses were immediately accepted and became a basis for collecting

Authoritative writings to which more prophetic books were later added. Law

Moses was in the Tent of Meeting beside the Ark of the Covenant (Deuteronomy 24:31-26) and the priests

They were read to the entire congregation of the Israelites (Deuteronomy 11:31) and the kings

They had copies of it in the future (Deuteronomy 18:17).

From the beginning, Moses had predicted that future prophets would be raised up to speak the Word.

Tell the people about God (Deuteronomy 15:18-19). During Moses’ ministry, he reminded the people

From false prophets, who encourage you to follow false gods, even

If they refuse, turn away (Deuteronomy 13:1-5; 20:18-22). In this order, the people

Gradually, they came to know and accept such a circle of prophetic writings. Joshua also spoke

He wrote himself “in the book of the law of God” (Joshua 24:26), and Samuel also wrote “the statutes of the Lord” (Joshua 24:26).

He declared the kingdom to the people, wrote it in a book, and placed it before God" (1:1).

(1 Samuel 25:10) The writers of the book of Kings and the chronicles of many of the messages of

A prophecy that covers the entire historical period of the Israelites from David to the exile (1 Chronicles 29:29).

They were aware of it (2 Chronicles 9:29). Daniel also knew about the “word” in his time.

Introduction 130


God has indicated that it included the prophets and the law of Moses (Daniel 2:9, 6).

and .(11)

Further signs of canon growth, later writings based on ancient writings

They were the ones who confirmed the authentic nature of the older writings.

The Bible is full of quotations from the writings of Moses (Joshua 1:7; 1 Kings

Joshua is mentioned in the Book of Judges (1:1 and 8:2). Malachi 3:2; Joshua is mentioned in the Book of Judges (4:4). History of Israel (1:1 and 8:2).

From the beginning to the kings, it is recorded in the Book of the Chronicles (1 Chronicles 1:1-11).

(1 Kings 15:2; Daniel 32:4; Proverbs 9:2; The Song of Solomon,

They have pointed out.

Other references could also be cited, but this is enough for now.

Information from what God's people gradually gathered during the Old Testament era

The inspired writings that God gave to the people, they did, we will obtain.

When the prophetic era ended, no other books were added to the canonical books,

It was not added. It is mentioned in the book of Talmud, which describes the beliefs of the ancient Jews,

"After the resurrection of the prophet John, the prophet Rebekah, and the prophet Malachi, the Holy Spirit departed from Israel."

This statement clearly indicates that the Holy Spirit forbids any further prophetic mission.

Show.

Josephus, a Jewish historian of the first century BC, said, although the writings

From the time of Artaxeryes (464 BC), they have been preserved, but are not equal to

"The ancient copies of the Bible are not considered to be "since other prophets replaced the ancient prophets."

"They didn't."

Introduction 131


Expansion of the center

Considering the basic writings of Moses and then the prophets, the canonical writings during the two

The important parts were collected: the Law of Moses and the Prophetic Books. And this preferred method

It was to this body that the New Testament referred (Matthew 5:17; Luke 16:16, 29, 31; Acts

.(15:13

Apparently, a group of older books also included these three sections in the same way as in the book

The Holy Spirit is observed today, meaning the Law, the Prophets, and the Writings existed.

The last classification included special books that had a dual nature.

which Christ was apparently aware of (Luke 24:44). But this dual nature is not related to anything.

Their power and authority have not diminished, because the Psalms are also part of this group.

It is books.

The Jews accepted the Old Testament as canonical scripture, and later Christ and

The early church considered the exact same 39 books in the Bible as the writings of

Most Bible scholars believe that there were originally 24 books called

Later, the Greek translation of the Bible under the title of Septuagint

(250-150 BC), introduced them in 22 books. These different arrangements, to

The Simplicity of the Book was composed of fragments of books that were separated from the current Bible.

For example, the books of First and Second Kings form one book.

None of these books were accepted without debate and controversy. Sometimes

Ambiguities regarding the Ghazals of Solomon, Ecclesiastes, Esther, Ezekiel, and Proverbs, discussed

These brief objections never expressed the views of the councils in relation to the canon.

Introduction 132


These epistles did not change. However, many ancient writings were not included in the canon.

They remained silent. They called this group of writings Pseudepigrapha or doubtful.

Pseudepigrapha is the name of a large group of Jewish writings from between 200

They were claimed to have existed from before Christ to 200 AD by Adam and Enoch and

Moses and Ezra were written because they were believed to be inspired. These books

Contains various writings from historical legends to dreams and false dreams in

They were associated with the transmission of the Jewish faith during a period of extraordinary suffering.

Their lies based on their godly reputation, along with their illusory nature, are based on money.

The events and fragments of false teachings prevented the Jews from including them in the canon.

The title of the Holy Scriptures was open.

Questionable books Nos. 14 and 15 are the subject of much discussion and debate in the canon.

Their existence became. The Roman Catholic Church has banned all but three of these books, as

It accepted the canonical books, but it did not accept any of the Jews or the Protestant Church.

This book, written between 200 BC and 100 AD, contains

Remarkable accuracy in describing religious, political, and social conditions of the years

The boundaries between the Old Testament and the New Testament are the grounds for studying things.

They have provided specific New Testament writings.

While some of the writings of ancient Christians apparently cite passages from this

Books, as reliable sources, are subject to several reasons for not accepting them as

There are canonical books. First, none of the Hebrew canons of the Old Testament contain

There are no such books. Second, when the New Testament writers and Christ

Introduction 133


The New Testament quotes, but never refers to the questionable book as the Bible.

The authentic ones did not narrate. It is interesting that the apostles often used the Septuagint or

The Greek translation of the Old Testament available at that time has been quoted many times.

The oldest copy of the Septuagint that we have (fourteenth century A.D.)

AD), includes doubtful or apocryphal epistles, and if in the New Testament also

We have no information if such an event has occurred. But if it did, avoiding Jesus and

The New Testament writers are of great importance in quoting from them.

The third reason for their non-acceptance in the canon is that, with a few brief exceptions,

In none of the canonical lists of books in the first four centuries AD is there a name for

They are not slaves.

The fourth reason is that the contents of these books, due to their being canonical,

While they contain valuable truths, they also contain false assumptions, such as

Ancient customs and legends make it impossible for these writings to be inspired.

Furthermore, these books do not claim to be inspired, and in fact

They were related to the period when the prophets were absent from Israel.

For these reasons, the Church generally never considers questionable books to be canonical.

The Roman Catholic Church has not accepted them, on this basis.

It has been argued that the Apocrypha supports the Roman Catholic belief in prayer for

It is the dead who have never found such work in Jewish and Protestant churches.

It won't happen.

Introduction 134


New Testament Center

The principles of identifying and collecting Old Testament books also apply to the New Testament.

The main difference between them is the length of time required to accept these books.

The church was not a unified community of God's people in the Old Testament, but rather spread throughout the world.

The world was scattered.


Identification of current writings

The New Testament epistles were written over a short period of time. This is why we refer to

We have few accepted options in the Bible.

Peter called Paul’s writings holy (2 Peter 3:15-16). Paul also

He probably referred to the Gospel of Luke as the Holy Scripture in 1 Timothy 5:18.

(Luke 7:10) Yet we see that the New Testament writings in

The general meetings of the churches are accompanied by readings from the Old Testament (1

5 Thessalonians 27:5; Colossians 16:4; Revelation 3:1; 1 Timothy 4:13.

When we are asked by what criteria some books were deemed authentic,

We are immediately confronted with the concept of apostolic power in the New Testament church. The apostles

They were called by Christ and commissioned by Him to be His authorized witnesses.

They were promised that they would receive the inspiration of the Holy Spirit to guide them.

To speak the truth (John 12:16-16). In their writings, they claimed to

They express God's revelation. The Church emphasizes the influence of Christ's teachings in the teachings of

The apostles recognized that they were called “the apostles’ teaching” (Acts 2:42, cf. also

Introduction 135


Ephesians 2:20

The criterion for their being canonical is the recognition of their origin as written by the apostles and

There were writers close to the apostles, such as Mark, who was with Peter, and Luke, who

He was with Paul, or the epistles that clearly set out the duties of apostolate. And in

Finally, any writing that was a direct address of the apostles to the church.


Development of the New Testament Center

The early churches, recognizing the need to distinguish between false and true writings,

Indeed, he entered the stage of selection. Luke wrote his Gospel to accurately identify the events.

The life of Christ was written (Luke 1:1-4). Paul wrote to the Thessalonian believers regarding

The false epistles of that time warned (2 Thessalonians 2:2).

Based on the study and review of authoritative and authoritative books in the development and selection of works

They were now involved.

Peter's reference to Paul's writings as "Holy Scripture" leads to a merger

They became canonical collections of the Old Testament.

In later centuries we came to the conclusion that the Church Fathers were also inspired and

Being canonical. All the New Testament epistles confirm our present. Apart from

Minor differences due to the fact that some of the letters were written in the East or in

The West is more accepting, with translations and canonical lists from the second century and

Third, they confirmed the authenticity of those letters. With regard to the councils of Hippo (393)

(397 AD) and Carthage (397 AD), the Church widely distributed 27 epistles in

He accepted the New Testament as the canonical epistles, because at that time there was no

Introduction 136


There is no serious challenge to the value of these writings, and nothing has been done to them.

Nothing has been added to them, and nothing has been taken away from them.


Expansion of the center
In the first century AD, approximately three hundred writings related to the church were published, including

The contents of these writings were largely atheistic and delusional, and

Mainstream Christianity rejected them as "completely absurd and atheistic." Several books

Others were known as the false New Testament, which was mostly about worship and art.

They were sermons, which were temporarily accepted in limited situations, but

They never achieved a central position in the church.

Among the books that were falsely accepted as the New Testament, there were seven

They were the subject of debate and controversy for a while.

Some church leaders, regarding specific teachings in the Epistle to the Hebrews,

James, Second Peter, Second and Third John, Jude, and Revelation had ambiguities.

Its connection with the Epistle to the Hebrews was not clear. However, based on

The ancient testimony, when the facts about these letters were revealed, was that they were all

The titles of the canonical epistles were accepted. When these truths were available to all the churches

They were immediately accepted as canonical epistles. In the fourth century

After the birth of all 27 apostles of the New Testament, as the Word of God, the universal decree

They received the title of the Word of God.

Introduction 137




10

The Holy Spirit and the Word



Among all the books, the Bible is unique to the individual. Other books

It is a construct of human thought and is intended to convey human thoughts to human beings. But a book

The Bible is a message from God to man. God is in the midst of the Bible with the heart and mind.

Man spoke and did this through his own Holy Spirit, and

The Holy Spirit, using the words of men in the Bible, conveyed God's message directly to us.

The human soul moves. Theologians call these stages the work of the soul in the illumination of the Bible.

They are called holy.


Need for clarification

The two major pillars of the Holy Spirit's enlightenment are absolutely necessary for understanding the Bible,

They make.

The first article is about the nature of the Bible. The Bible is the truth of God,

Not the human mind. The second article is about the effects of sin on our thoughts. We can

Imagine our problems as deep doors. In a nutshell, this door

The deep truth of God is found in the Bible and in the other realms of human thought.

Introduction 138


What is needed to bridge the gap that separates these two?

Do we have it?

To bridge this gap, it is enough for God to enter through His Holy Spirit.

It will be done.

1. The Holy Spirit Knows God - If we want to know God, we must

It is up to Him to reveal Himself to us. God is not someone or something that anyone can

explain Him or know Him by the power of argument. God is a person, and

Like any other person, we cannot truly know him unless we know our own being.

Make it clear to us.

In one of the key sections of his epistle, Paul explains the mission of the Holy Spirit.

It is about things that our eyes cannot see and our ears cannot hear.

They don't hear, because there are things on different levels that are beyond natural comprehension.

They are human and only the Holy Spirit can see and hear them. Then to the explanation.

This teaches the truth that God can only be known through the work of the Holy Spirit...":

For the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God. For who is of

People who know the affairs of man except the soul of man that resides within him.

Also, no one has known the will of God except the Spirit of God...but we know it.

We have received the Spirit who is in God, so that we may know the things that have been freely given to us by God.

We speak them, not with words taught by human wisdom, but as

The Holy Spirit teaches...1 Corinthians 10:2-123

According to these verses, man cannot truly know God and His way unless

Introduction 139


The Holy Spirit revealed it to him. This revelation is the result of the teachings of the Holy Spirit and the preaching of the gospel.

It is the apostles. Without the mission of the Holy Spirit, the apostles could not speak for

They say it is the revelation of God, but only the Holy Spirit enables them to speak in hearts and souls.

People, to penetrate. Because it is only the Holy Spirit who is the direct link between the thought of God and

It is human thought.

2- The blindness of sin - the Holy Spirit, because He is the only one who knows the thoughts of God,

Not only must he be the expounder of the Word and the ultimate teacher of the Word, but he must also make the Word visible to the eyes.

Explain that they were spiritually blind because of sin. In the Garden of Eden before the

Because sin entered the world, man needed the Holy Spirit to truly know God.

There was no need. But with the entry of sin into the world, this need arose. According to the book

The Holy One, those who have not been touched by the Holy Spirit, have absolutely no respect for the truth.

God does not believe. Such people:

They are darkened in their minds and deprived of the life of God, because of the ignorance that is in them.

Their hardness of heart is in them (Ephesians 4:18).


They are not receptive to the things of God, and even as long as they receive the enlightenment of the Holy Spirit,

They are described as ignorant (1 Corinthians 2:14).

In addition to the blinding effect of sin, Satan is also at work to blind the eyes of the unsaved.

Close. The apostle Paul wrote:

But if our gospel is a mystery, it is a mystery to the lost, to whom the God of this world is revealed.

The world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers, lest the manifestation of the gospel of glory should shine upon them.

Christ, who is the image of God, enlightens them (2 Corinthians 4:3-4).

Introduction 140


Without the work of the Holy Spirit, the message of the Bible would not be revealed.

Man cannot do anything about it. Only God, with His Spirit, can bring the light of truth into the world.

Darkness is shining.

The saved person is different. The new birth includes the ability to see things differently.

It is spiritual. However, the presence of sin causes human blindness.

In another analogy, Paul said that the believers in Corinth could not teach in

They were limited in their ability to accept "solid food," because sin was present in them, so

It was enough to give them “thin food” (1 Corinthians 1:3-3). In the same way, the Scriptures

The Epistle to the Hebrews was claimed to be written by the believers to whom it was addressed.

“Their ears are dull of hearing (because of sin)” (Hebrews 7:5-14).

Thus, the mission of the Holy Spirit in clarifying the Word of God for believers and

For unbelievers, it is necessary. We come to Christ as the Spirit who reveals the truth of salvation.

Our hearts, our faith, and our true growth come only through the work of the Holy Spirit. Only He

It can neutralize the effects of dark sin in our lives.


Illumination work
When we talk about the Holy Spirit's enlightening duty, we enter the realm of

We become extraordinarily interested in the truth, but at the same time there are mysterious things.

Revelation and inspiration are related to the transmission of God's mind to us. Enlightenment in

It is related to the revelation and application of the Word of God in our hearts and minds. The works of God to

The dimensions of our consciousness are always beyond our comprehension.

For example, who can explain the role of the Holy Spirit in the new birth? With this

Introduction 141


The Bible contains some fundamental truths regarding the mission of the Holy Spirit,

The Word of God has revealed to us what we need to know.

1- Definition of enlightenment: Perhaps we can define enlightenment in the form of the work of the Holy Spirit.

To understand the Bible, let's define it. Some theologians say that this

The mission is only for believers. But the other work of the Holy Spirit causes

Man understands the message of salvation and comes to Christ for salvation. Enlightenment for

Christians, it is the ongoing work of the Holy Spirit to help us grow in our knowledge and application of the

In our lives.

We can gain a broader understanding of the Word's illumination in relation to revelation and

To gain inspiration. Revelation is the unveiling or understanding of the truth of God.

Inspiration creates the possibility of a true expression of that truth in language.

Let man flow. Prophets and apostles, under the mission of the Holy Spirit, conveyed the truth of God to

Others have transmitted. In both revelation and inspiration, God's truth is revealed to us.

It happens. That is, they confront us with something that is outside of us.

In enlightenment, the Holy Spirit takes the Word and brings it directly to the hearts of people.

Calvin highlighted this and said that the same spirit that

"He who spoke through the tongue of the prophets must penetrate our hearts and repeat the message to us again and again."

"Repeat." Another aspect of our definition here is worthy of consideration, and that is

That the Holy Spirit illuminates the Word.

Every so often throughout the history of the church, someone has claimed to be the mouthpiece of God.

They have done so, claiming to have been enlightened by the Holy Spirit and to have discovered new truths.

Introduction 142


They have shown that they have not come in the Word of God. Often these "prophets" base their claims on

Paul's comparison between "the letter" and "the Spirit" (2 Corinthians 3). Based on

They know the direct priority of truth to hearts by "themselves".

But such a distinction cannot be made in Paul's view. Throughout the pages of the book

The Holy Apostles have added the mission of the Holy Spirit to the Word of God. The Holy Spirit knows that

He inspired human writers to write the Word of God, bringing the Word into existence.

(2 Peter 1:21) When the Holy Spirit received such a truth by inspiration and made it known,

It was God Himself who taught and enlightened the hearts. It is the Word of God that is the sword of the Spirit.

The Word is God’s instrument in the miracle of the new birth (Ephesians 6:17, James 1:18).

Peter (1:23) and the sanctification of God’s people (John 17:17).

Since Christ is the subject and focus of the Bible, the Holy Spirit is the author of the Bible.

It illuminates the world so that transformation becomes a way to know Him in all His glory.


The nature of enlightenment

The Holy Spirit's work of illuminating the Word begins for everyone in the stages of faith.

An ordinary person cannot read the Bible without the Holy Spirit.

Understand. He can read the Bible and even read its message in word form,

But what he reads is not understandable to him. The prophet Isaiah defines such

"You see many things, but you don't listen, you don't listen."

“They open, but they do not hear” (Isaiah 20:42). When Paul preached the gospel

It seems that the Gospel caused many Jews to stumble and many Gentiles to be saved.

It becomes foolishness (1 Corinthians 1:23).

Introduction 143


The reason for such a reaction, based on Paul's words, was the fact that it

The Word is entirely taught to man by the Holy Spirit, and without the Holy Spirit,

“He does not accept the things of the Spirit, for they are foolishness to him” (1 Corinthians 2:14).

The stages of transformation and faith. The Spirit of God removes the veil from the eyes and hearts of the blind.

He takes and tells people the truths of God so that they can find out who they really are. This

The mission of the Holy Spirit in the believer is in the form of growth in the knowledge of God through

His word is manifested, and the apostle Paul said that believers “should not be deceived by words.”

"Taught by human wisdom, but because of what the Spirit teaches" (1 Corinthians

(13:2) As a result of the teachings of the Holy Spirit, the believer has a “mind of

"Christ" (verse 16).

One of the most inspiring passages in the Bible regarding enlightenment

The Holy Spirit is found in the first epistle of John. Religious teachers such as the Sufis

They believed in "knowledge" for salvation. They believed they held the key to knowledge.

They have it, and any Anx who wants that key can do so through exclusive teachings.

They were possessed. In response to these teachings, John insisted that all

Believers “have received an anointing from the Holy One” (1 John 2:20).

John considered the Holy Spirit a gift from God that belongs to everyone.

It is he who believed in Christ. As a result, John told the readers of his epistle,

"You do not need anyone to teach you, but as Christ himself taught you,

"Whatever he teaches...you remain in him" (verse 27).

Some Christians do not have the correct understanding of this section, and all teachers

Introduction 144


They consider a person an outcast and say, "We don't need anyone to teach us anything."

"The Holy Spirit has taught us directly."

Such a situation of ignoring the signs of the Bible is based on the fact that God teaches us

He has entrusted it to the church. John did not command us to despise all teachers.

We should not count, but rather say that we should not be completely dependent on the teachings of human teachers in

Let's be in touch with God's truth. Teachers help us understand God's Word, but

It is the Holy Spirit who ultimately teaches the truth of the Word to our minds and hearts.

There were probably individuals whom John defined as "antichrists" and

They were those who taught things about Jesus Christ that were contrary to the truth.

(1 John 2:18-23) John emphasizes that the believer can know the truth.

Understand Jesus Christ, because he has the Holy Spirit who does his work.

Christ's glorification to God's people gave them the answer (John 14:16).

Michael Green wrote the story of a soldier who, as a result of his teachings, became a Christian.

And immediately after he believed, he was sent to North Africa.

Green could no longer teach him the fundamental truths of faith. A few months later, a letter from

The young soldier receives a letter from his class that says the Bible is in the

He has established his own residence.

Not only his colleagues went to class, but also officers with higher ranks than his.

In this example, without the help of human teachers, this believer

The Holy Spirit taught the truths of the Bible to the point that He even led others in

Knowing it guided me.

Introduction 145


What is the special thing that the Holy Spirit does in this mission?

Does his explanation give us a realistic interpretation of the problematic parts? Is his testimony a substitute for

Does hourly training take us? In answering these questions, the Bible addresses several aspects.

It reveals the foundation of the enlightening work of the Holy Spirit.

First: The Holy Spirit enables us to understand the meaning of the Bible. Purpose

It is not that anyone without the Holy Spirit is completely incapable of a correct interpretation of what is

It is what the Bible says.

Many unbelievers have complete respect for the Holy Bible. Masterful teachings

They are very useful and important in relation to the historical background and concepts of Hebrew and Greek.

They are. The Holy Spirit offers intelligent understanding beyond spiritual knowledge.

In other words, the Holy Spirit delivers concepts to hearts, not to brains.

The problem for a person who does not have the help of the Holy Spirit is not that he does not understand the words in the

The pages of the Bible, but these words do not make him feel good.

He doesn't want to understand concepts in relation to himself.

We may consider this concept in terms of the kind words of parents to their children.

They forbid their youth from playing with guns or eating too much candy, obviously.

The parents' speech is completely clear and understandable to the children. But the problem is

It's that children don't accept them as truth, so they deny them.

However, later, when they grow up, they will not only realize the sincerity and importance of words

Parents themselves, but often themselves, provide such guidance to their children.

In the same way, when the Bible is translated without the help of the Holy Spirit,

Introduction 146


People, no matter how educated, will never understand the true meaning of the message of the Bible, and in

They don't use their lives.

Therefore, the enlightenment of the Holy Spirit does not take the place of education. We are advised

We are to strive to “do the word of God” (2 Timothy 2:15 and the Bible).

A careful examination of his own meaning is recommended (Acts 11:17). But his teaching

Without the help of the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit will never truly understand the message of the Bible.

The second aspect, the enlightenment of the Holy Spirit, is the refreshing of the Bible.

The Psalmist prayed, “Open my eyes that I may see wondrous things from the law.”

(Psalm 119:18) The wonderful thing about the Bible is that it is written from the beginning.

It distinguishes all other writings, and the other is that humans can read them.

And in every reading, find a new leaf of truth in them. They are like treasures.

They are endless, and anyone who reads them can always find new treasures to discover.

However, these treasures are opened by God through the eyes of the

The Holy Spirit is revealed and preserved. Sometimes when the Bible is read from the tongue

We hear from someone who has studied it for many years, from the perspectives of

The fresh insights we gain from every page of the Bible, even though we read them over and over again,

We read it many times, we are amazed. These added perspectives and their application in

The life we have learned in the school of God, or the Holy Spirit, has a profound impact on the world.

It passes.

The third aspect of enlightenment is that the mission of the Holy Spirit is always centered on Scripture.

It is the Bible and its purposes for our lives. Jesus declared that the Bible was given to him

Introduction 147


(John 5:39) In this way, the Holy Spirit, along with the illumination of the Scriptures, bears witness.

The Holy One constantly points to the Savior and His work. The Savior is someone

"May the light of the knowledge of the glory of God shine in our hearts in the face of Jesus Christ,

“Shine on us” (2 Corinthians 4:6).

Christ said that the Holy Spirit would glorify Him and bear witness to Him (John

(14:16 and 26:15) The reason for that is clear. The purpose of the Bible is that we know God.

We know, that is, the same God who revealed Himself to us in the person of Christ and His work.

It has been discovered.

In this way, the Holy Spirit's enlightening mission brings this revelation into our hearts and minds,

It perfects. The Holy Spirit's focus on the body means that when He teaches us,

First, we learn from the history of ancient peoples about God, or even in the form of religious teachings in books,

It does not teach, but rather directs our attention to God's revelation of Himself in Jesus Christ.

(cf. Ephesians 1:16-17)

The importance of this revelation is that we know how to behave toward God.

The psalmist's desire was to see "wonderful things" from God's Word, that is,

The Word “preserves” him (Psalm 17:18-19). Similarly, the apostle Paul prayed:

For the believers of the Colosseum, it was "to know the will of God in all wisdom and

[Being] filled with spiritual understanding, [so] [they] may be fully satisfied through the merit of the Lord.

“Behavior [represents]” (Colossians 1:9-10). Coming to an understanding, through the illumination of the Bible

It is made possible by the Holy Spirit in a life of devotion.

3- The result of the Enlightenment - the culmination of the final result of the mission of the Holy Spirit in the Enlightenment

Introduction 148


To have the Word of God in our hearts and minds is to know God. Knowledge

Which is only the result of the Holy Spirit's illumination of the "mystery of Christ" (Colossians 2:2).

John also said something similar:

But we know that the Son of God has come and has given us an understanding so that we may know the truth.

We know him and are in the truth, that is, in his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God.

Eternal life (1 John 5:20).


How close is this knowledge of God to the word that the Bible has put into the matter?

The word is said to dwell in the hearts of believers (James 1:21). And some define it this way.

"The Word takes deep root in you." It is this abiding presence of the Word of God that

Identifies a person as a Christian (1 John 8:1, 10, 4:2).

The presence of the Word, due to the mission of the Holy Spirit and the true knowledge of God, is one.

Martin Luther, the leader of the Reformation, expressed this unity with the following words:

It is:

Since these sacred promises are real, true, free, and peaceful words,

Full of goodness, the soul is united with the bodies, mingled with strong faith.

It becomes and not only is it absorbed in their power, but it is saturated and captivated by them.

And he delights in them. If just one touch of Jesus is healing, how much more so is this?

The subtle spiritual touch, this captivating word of God, everything that pertains to His Word,

It moves.
("The Freedom of a Christian" Lather's Worke, XXXI, 349).

Introduction 149


Acceptance of enlightenment

The illumination of the Bible does not happen by itself. Rather, it requires guidance.

Let us follow God to accept the mission of the Holy Spirit. This guidance includes the vision and

It is our actions.

1- The perspective of humble faith - "God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble."

"gives grace" (James 4:6).

The revelation of the true meaning of the Bible is an act of God's grace, and we

We can only humbly obey it. Anyone who believes understands and

Anyone who wants to gain wisdom from the Bible and through academia,

He will never experience the saving mission of the Holy Spirit. God reveals His truths to us.

He has hidden things from the “wise and prudent” and revealed them to “babes” (Luke 1:11).

.(21:10

A humble view of faith is evident in the psalm of the psalmist, who himself

He does not consider himself wise, but asks God for wisdom: "Open my eyes so that I may see."

“I will see wonderful things in your law” (18:119; “Teach me the way of your statutes”

Teach me...give me understanding... (verses 33 and 34)

2. Obedience to God's findings - growing in knowledge of the Bible under guidance

The Holy Spirit is subject to our submission to what He gives us. The Great Tribulation

In Jesus' day, everyone thought they were righteous and turned away from the light that

The Bible had been revealed to them, they had been turned away. As a result, Jesus spoke through parables.

He taught them, so that his followers who were eager to know the truth of God could

Introduction 150


understand, and those who reacted negatively to the revelation were blind (Matt.

13:13-16

Christians today can also respond to the teachings of the Holy Spirit through their choice.

Be slow-witted in your physical ways. One church member proudly declared one day:

who reads the entire Bible five times a year. The priest replied, "The Bible

How many times does the Holy One call you? A serious effort to behave in a commandment of the book

The sacred becomes the cause of greater knowledge of it, without striving to obey it.

3- Meditation on the Bible - Growth in a true awareness of the Bible is required.

It is when we dedicate ourselves to it and expose ourselves to its realities.

Let us actively meditate and ponder on His words. The psalmist wrote, “From

I will delight in your commandments, which I love...and meditate on your statutes.

I will show you...how much I love your law...my eyes are on the watchtowers of the night.

"The time has come for us to meditate on your word" (Psalms 119:47-48, 97, 148).

People's different attitudes towards studying the Bible well in the activities of a

A butterfly, a botanist, and a bee are shown. The butterfly is for one or two

For a moment, a flower becomes beautiful, and then it flies to another flower's flower, and the flowers

He touches many things, but he does not benefit much from them. The botanist spends his time

He takes just one branch of flowers and examines it carefully, taking many notes from it.

When he is done, he closes his office and turns his mind to the things of the past.

He does not do anything else and keeps most of his information in a closed notebook. But the bee on

Every flower spends its time, fills its belly with pollen and honey, and flies away from the garden.

Introduction 151


He is leaving.

In the same way, when some people study the Bible, they

They jump there, recite a few verses of their choice, but they gain little benefit from them.

Others study the Bible with seriousness. They memorize the truths and precepts.

They accumulate, but in reality they do not allow the Holy Spirit to enter their hearts.

Teach. But numbers are like bees. Enough time to study the Word.

They dedicate, read the Word, and meditate on it to align their thinking with it.

To fill them with heavenly wisdom, so that whenever necessary, these treasures can guide their steps in

May the paths of life guide you.

Introduction 152




11

The power of the Word of God



When Jesus was tempted by the devil to turn stones into bread and

"Quench your hunger," he said to Satan. "Man does not live by bread alone,

"But by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God" (Matthew 4:4). Centuries before Moses

He said so (Deuteronomy 3:8).

Jesus thus established the canonical value of the Bible, stating that the Word

It is the living, powerful, and dynamic power of God, and it is the means through which He reveals Himself to us.

The world has been discovered. This truth always expresses the unique place of the individual.

The Holy Book is God in the lives and hearts of people. No other book is

There is no sacredness that is based on God Himself and is necessary for life.

This claim immediately raises many questions. How are the words

Can special things written on paper be alive? How can they?

Are they life-giving? What do they achieve? These questions, from our perspective, are relative.

The application of the Bible in our daily lives is vital.

Introduction 153


The energy of the Word of God

In a famous parable, Jesus likened the greatness of God’s word to a seed (Luke 8:11).

A dry grain of wheat or corn does not appear to be a complex substance. In fact, it is undoubtedly

It is possible to create an artificial version of it so that it cannot be seen or touched.

The real test is planting it in the soil. The living seed

It bears living fruit, while the artificial seed is buried in the soil.

In the same way, the Bible may seem like any other book at first glance,

But when accepted, it has amazing power to create spiritual life.

James, referring to Jesus' parable of the grain of wheat, wrote, "With the humility of the word

"Receive the seed that is able to save your souls" (James 1:11).

(1:21) The word of God is the seed of God, which is like a natural seed, the fruit of which is life.

It is.

The value of the living Word of God is well defined by the writer of Hebrews.

"The word of God is living and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword...and sharper than any two-edged sword."

"The thoughts and intentions of the heart" (Hebrews 4:12). It is interesting that the phrase "alive" is used by

The same writer has repeatedly referred to himself as “God” (Hebrews 3:12; 9:14;

(31:10; 22:12) God is the “living God” and the One who gives life to His words.

It is self-sent.

Because the Word of God is “alive,” it is also “active.” The Greek word is Energes.

The root of the English phrase is “Energy” and “Energetic” and refers to something powerful,

It is active and effective. This phrase is used as an adjective to describe God's work in us and

Introduction 154


(Philippians 2:13) In the same way that life is

God has come to us through the acceptance of the Word of God, the energy and power of God through His Word.

He works in us. Jesus taught that his words are the words of the Heavenly Father (cf.

John 14:17 And he said, “The words that I speak to you, they are spirit and they are life.” (John 14:17)

(63:6)

When Jesus spoke these words, many of those who had seen him

They followed him, they turned their backs on him. But his disciples understood what Jesus said and

They tested their power. When Jesus asked them, "Will they also leave him?"

Peter, doubtless speaking for all the disciples, answered,

“Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life.” (Psalm 68:6) God in the Accusation

Showing false prophets who speak on their own behalf and bring "no benefit" to the people

They will not declare your true power (Jeremiah 32:23): “Is my word like fire?”

"Is it not like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces?" (verse 29). He spoke to the prophet Jeremiah.

He declared, "Behold, I will make my words in your mouth fire, and this people will be fuel."

(14:5)

When Jeremiah had not spoken the word that God had given him for a while, [their hearts]

The fire was kindled and [its furnaces] were shut up” (Jeremiah 9:20).

Unlike the fire and hammer metaphors that emphasize the destructive power of the word, Isaiah

He considered the elements of nature to be a sign of the effective power of God's word. God in relation to

Najat said to the Prophet:

And as the rain and snow come down from the sky and do not return there, but water the earth,

Introduction 155


He waters it, makes it fertile and fruitful, and gives seed to the sower and bread to the eater.

forgives, so shall my word that proceedeth out of my mouth be void before me.

It will not return, but will accomplish what I have asked for and for what it is for.

I will send you to the house of the Lord (Isaiah 10:55-11).


These words regarding the living and active nature of the Word of God should not be taken as

It is possible that the Word of God is only available in specific time periods that God wills,

It is true, and we do not see this obligation anywhere in the Bible.

That the word of God has been effective in certain areas. The reality is that the effects of this word

Life is not always obvious, and this is due to human failure to understand it.

The fact that a seed must be planted in order to bear fruit in no way negates the life in the seed.

No.

More importantly, as we will see, even when the Word of God is not seen, it is considered and denied.

It will be effective again on the Day of Judgment.


Salvation through the Word of God

If the Word of God is manifested among us with the power of God, it shows that we are the goal.

His great purpose is in our salvation. Just as Christ came in the word of God to save the lost,

Seek and save, the Bible is also a tool for conveying salvation to man.

To enjoy salvation, two things are very important: knowing the Gospel and believing in it.

Accepting, and both points are fulfilled through God's revelation in the Bible.

1- The Gospel in the Word of God - The Place of the Word of God in the Plan of Salvation by the Apostle Paul

It has been stated. He said in his letter to the Corinthians, "God has pleased this religion to

Introduction 156


"For by the foolishness of preaching came salvation to them that believe" (1 Corinthians 1:21).

Jesus taught his disciples that the Bible teaches us that salvation is the same as sanctification.

It is the instrument by which we are saved. And he said to his disciples, "Now you

“You are clean because of the word which I have spoken to you” (John 3:15).

The Place of the Bible in Salvation with Respect to God's Request Based on Man's Obedience

It has been revealed to him. In the book of Isaiah, the prophet God has called us to do so.

"Hearken, hearken to me, and eat good things...open your ears."

“Come to me, and hear, that your soul may live.” (Isaiah 55:2)

He has ordained salvation through hearing His Word. Only the Holy Bible

“He is able to make you wise for salvation” (2 Timothy 3:15).

The effects of God's Word in salvation are evident in the enemy's efforts to suppress the Bible.

It has been. In the last period of great persecution of Christians, before religious Christianity

considered legal in the Roman Empire, Roman rulers tried time and again to

To destroy Christianity forever. A Christian is called an infidel when he hears

The Imperial Council is talking about burning all Christians, he said: "Burning

Christians are of no use, because if you burn all Christians today, only one volume will be saved.

"As long as the Bible remains, the Church of Christ will flourish tomorrow." As a result, the Emperor

He issued a decree to destroy the Bible.

The Bible is an instrument for salvation, because it reveals the good news of salvation in Jesus Christ.

Paul, when testifying to the Romans about the saving power of the Bible,

Point out:

Introduction 157


For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes.

He believed, the Jew first, and also the Greek (Romans 1:16).


From a gospel perspective, the focus is on Christ's death for our sins and resurrection.

He is victorious (1 Corinthians 1:15-4). However, from a broader perspective, the totality

The Bible reveals our sinful nature and God's salvation, and from this perspective, the Bible

It can be called the Gospel (good news). Because apart from the light of God's Word, our lost condition

reveals, the revelation of Christ would be in vain. In this way, the whole book

The Holy Spirit is the Word of God. God sows His Word as spiritual seed in the hearts of those who

They have accepted it, it has been planted.

2- Faith through the Word of God - We may be tempted to say, "Yes, the Word of God."

The seed is life-giving, but this seed must be accepted. What is necessary is that

"Let us accept it and believe it." However, the life-giving Word of God is the appointed means

It is for faith. Surely the Holy Spirit has prepared souls and opened ears and hearts.

It opens the door for them to believe in the Word of God, but the Holy Spirit does such a work through the Word.

God does, even though the messenger declares, "Faith comes from hearing and

"Hearing the word of God" (Romans 10:17).

Only when we place ourselves in the hands of the Word of God and allow it to

The illumination of the Holy Spirit removes the veil from our eyes, so that we may believe in the Word of God.

We will bring. Only when we look at the Word of God, which is the one who has saved.

Let us focus and allow the Holy Spirit to glorify Him before our eyes, Himself.

We will hand it over to him.

Introduction 158


Since God uses His Word to inspire faith, using it

It is absolutely necessary in the gospel. Some of Ralph's friends. C. Neutron, the director of a

The Evangelical Mission says that he used the Bible in almost all of his writings.

"He uses a monopoly. And they ask the neutron: "If someone does not believe,

"You don't accept the Bible as a valid source, what do you do?" Neutron

"Very well, you say, if I had a beautiful, double-edged sword of Damocles in my

War is a struggle because the other side does not believe that my sword has won.

"I wouldn't." The point is not to examine the evidence for the authenticity of the Bible.

It has no value. The reason for believing the Bible is that it helps us understand its truths.

But we must always remember that the "sword of the Spirit" is not our words,

But it is the Word of God. The Holy Spirit, using the light of the Bible, illuminates the darkness of thought.

Man is infiltrating (Ephesians 6:17).

A prominent physicist, in a confrontation with D.L. Modi, recognized his influence and endorsed

He said, "I know that Modi is not a scholar and I am sure that there are many problems in

I find his words, but I see I can't! He read the Bible, sentence by sentence.

My soul shoots to hit my heart like a bullet from a gun.

Let me tell you that the power of Modi lies in the fact that the Bible is the tip of the tongue.

"It is him."


Christian Growth Through the Word of God

The Word of God is not only active in bringing us into the presence of Christ, but also a means for

Growth is in Christ. The testimony of a Christian elder reflects the inner thoughts of the whole

Introduction 159


"I had a very corrupt and sinful nature. And whatever I willed,

I was doing it, I was doing it, and I couldn't clean myself up. I also asked my friends to help me.

I had not made any correction, and even if an angel came from heaven, he could not have saved me.

Reformed, only one thing reformed me. Reading the Bible and believing in

"What is in it."

Jesus pointed to this truth when he spoke to his tempters,

"Man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God."

"(Matthew 4:4) Physical food is necessary for physical growth, and in the same way, spiritual growth

Spirituality requires the Word of God.

In praying for his followers, Jesus asked the Father, "Father, give them

"The truth sanctifies itself. Your word is truth" (John 17:17). Later Peter, after

The teaching that the believer is born in Christ through the Word of God, the nutritional value

He likened the word of God to milk for infants (1 Peter 1:23) and added, “For

"As newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow into salvation."

(2:2) Christian growth requires that we feed on the Word that gives us life.

Give.

The apostle Paul summarized the effect of God's Word on the believer as follows:

All Scripture is inspired by God and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting, and training in

Justice is useful so that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work (2 Cor.

1 Timothy 3:16-17

The application and understanding of this truth is very important, both in the behavior of individuals and in the functioning of the church.

Paul sought a blessing for the Colossian believers because of the power of the word: “The word of Christ.”

Introduction 160


"...dwelled in you in all wisdom and power" (Colossians 3:16).

We read these sections, noting the effects of dwelling in the Word of God and its similarity to

We become Spirit-filled (cf. Ephesians 5:18-20).

This fullness is understood when we know that the Spirit is at work through the Word and only through it.

The sword is not against spiritual enemies (Ephesians 6:17), but is God's instrument for

Our growth is. Paul was able to lead his faithful followers in Ephesus to the highest

"Entrust your brothers to God and to the word of his grace."

I am confident that he is able to build you up and give you an inheritance among all the saints.

"Give" (Acts 32:20).

The Bible not only teaches its power to promote spiritual growth,

It also suggests ways for this evolution.

Jesus said that the word of God is valid, because it is truth (John 17:17).

The Bible is not a magical book that can be used simply by knowing and reading it.

Create wonder. Our reading must be accompanied by understanding. The Bible alone

It is effective when it is understood and accepted.

However, listing all the self-denial truths that God has given us in the Bible is

It is difficult to examine and study the personality of the Savior.

The sweetest truths are in the Bible. However, there are two fundamental and important issues in

The Bible has been revealed to contain the truth of spiritual growth (1):

Showing our sins and (2) showing the Savior. Growth in the Christian life

The power of these two fundamental truths must be manifested in our lives through our faith.

Introduction 161


The Word of God exposes sin. In exposing sin, the Word of God sets the standards for

It reveals God's justice and our failure to fulfill it. The Psalmist says,

"With what does a young man cleanse his path? By keeping his word in harmony with your words."

(9:119)

James likens the Word of God to a mirror in which we can see ourselves.

Let us see ourselves as we are. The standard in this mirror is God's standard or His "perfect law."

which reveals our imperfections (James 1:23-25). While the analogy of a mirror reflects

Calls out inactive givers, the writer of Hebrews says that the word of God

He actively searches us. Nothing about us is hidden from His sight. The definition of God's Word in

The worship of "living and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword" in the language of Jacob means

It is because the Word of God penetrates the depths of our being and discerns the “thoughts and intentions of our heart.”

The result of the power of God’s Word is that “no creature is inferior to him” (Hebrews 4:12).

There is nothing hidden, but everything is naked and exposed in the eyes of him with whom we have to do.

It is (verse 13).

A Chinese man told the preacher after hearing the Bible message for the first time.

"I know this is the Word of God," he said, "because it tells me who I am!"

We can see the profound effects of God's Word on believers in Peter's experience.

Let's see. On the night Jesus was arrested, Peter immediately after being

"He denied him the third time," the Lord turned and looked at Peter, then Peter

“He remembered the word that the Lord had spoken to him” (Luke 22:61).

Peter remembered Jesus' prediction of his denial, and this is the principle that is followed throughout.

Introduction 162


The things that are true are true. It is the word of God that makes a person a believer.

Let him see his sin and repent. The Psalmist sings: "The law of the Lord is

"It is perfect, restoring life" (Psalm 19:7).

2- The fruit of God's word is salvation. Seeing God's holy standard in the Bible

The sacred is one thing, and committing to it is a matter of our lack of faith in reaching it and how to do it.

Our performance in achieving it is another matter. One night at the dinner table, our daughter

He looked at my nose and said that my nose was crooked. Of course, this was a new discovery for me.

It wasn't, because he had shown it to me many times in the mirror. The problem was that it didn't work for me.

It was not created to solve it. Our problem with sin is the same. The Bible

You say that all humans are sinners and are destined by God to live a short life. But

As beneficial as such a discovery is to us, if we do not understand it, the benefits

We won't have it now.

However, the Bible is more than just a standard revelation of God and a mirror for

It is a reflection of our shortcomings. The Bible contains the Word of God and the great work of salvation.

It is through Christ. When the apostle Paul called the gospel “the power of God for salvation,” he was referring to

This is an important point. Salvation is the plan that God has in mind for us.

We begin the Christian life in the Gospel, and we grow with the Gospel. When

The Apostle Paul wanted to call the believers in Rome to holiness and spiritual growth.

He directed their attention to the way of their salvation (Romans 1:6-11).

They died with Christ and were raised with Christ to new life in Him.

To begin with. Their sins had been forgiven and they had been transformed into new people.

Introduction 163


According to the apostle's statements, the key to growth is paying attention to the great realities of the Gospel and life.

It is based on them. In order to put such a life into practice, the Bible declares that

We must accept the truth of the gospel by faith every day. We have been set free from the slavery of sin,

Our sins are forgiven and we are made alive by the Holy Spirit in the life and resurrection of Christ.

We do. This generous forgiveness is the central theme of the Gospel. So when

We read the Bible, the Spirit of God illuminates His Word in our minds and hearts.

They transform and create a new faith in us. The illumination of holiness, freshness, and power.

The Word of God is expressed in the Old Testament and the story of the sacrifice of the red bull.

                                                                Chapter numbers. 19

According to the Law of Moses, a person who was unclean had to be cleansed before entering the temple.

To attain oneself in society, to be purified. To be cleansed of all impurity, the cow

They took the red substance and sacrificed it outside the camp of Israel. Part of

Its blood was sprinkled seven times as a sacrifice to the Lord on the tabernacle of meeting.

After that, it is completely burned until it turns into ash. And the ash is mixed with water.

It was mixed and called “the water of purification” (verse 9). When the Israelites were unclean

They used this water to purify themselves. The effects of this water were that

It contained sacrificial ashes, and every time people used it, it brought benefits and

The benefits of that sacrifice were reminded to them. The same is true of the Bible.

The Bible contains the sacrificial work of Christ to cleanse us (cf. Ephesians

(26:5) The blood that was shed once and for all on the cross of Calvary, believers

We enter into a relationship with God. But as long as we are alive and living in this world,

Introduction 164


We do, we inevitably become contaminated and impure, and we need to use it again and again.

We are Christ's victory over sin and the renewal of His life. This is the message in the Word of God.

It is addressed to us. When we read this message and meditate on it, the Spirit

God uses it as “water of purification” to purify our lives of faith.

In addition to revealing the Savior as the one who purifies our lives, the Bible

He has also revealed to us his unparalleled purity and innocence. He is the head and

He is our example, and we are to be conformed to His image (Romans 8:29). Similar steps

Our becoming in Christ is described by the apostle Paul in 2 Corinthians 3:18:

But we all, with unveiled face, beholding in a mirror the glory of God,

We are transformed into the same image with glory, just as we are from God, who is the Spirit.


The place of the Holy Spirit in this process is the revelation of the glory of Christ. The Holy Spirit and

His testimony is the main source of the Bible (John 5:39).

Just as the Spirit of God illuminates the Bible, so too does He shed His light on Christ and

His glory shines so that we may see him in his glory (John 14:16).

You say, when we see Christ, we gradually become like him.

We all know that if we spend too much time with someone, we

We stand by him and, out of respect, we say that some of his personal characteristics are definitely

We imitate.

The stages of formation will be the key to success when we make time for Christ.

And let us meditate and ponder on the Word of God. In this way, the power of God's Spirit works in us.

To make us like Christ.

Introduction 165


The revelation of Christ is certainly the great statement of the Psalmist, where he says, "The Word

I have hidden you in my heart, lest I sin against you” (11:119).

There is no greater power in life than the eternal image of God in our minds and hearts.

There is no such thing as a constant study of the Word of God.


Judgment in the Word of God
Jesus said that I “did not come to judge the world, but to save the world.”

"Give me" (John 12:47, and refer to John 3:17), with this coming of His being with the light

God will execute judgment on those who reject Him (John 3:19).

The same effect has every aspect, and we see its power in saving and nourishing spiritual life,

We observe, but we cannot use this power without considering the judgmental power of the Word,

Let's draw a conclusion. Jesus said, "Whoever despises me and does not receive my words,

There is one who will judge him, the same word that I spoke to him on the day of resurrection.

"He will judge" (John 12:48).

The Apostle Paul viewed the mission of the Word of God as a fragrance that “scents life.”

"To life" for those who accept it and "From death to death" for those who

They turn their backs on it (2 Corinthians 2:15-17).

The word of God includes judgment and death, because it is powerful and alive, and we must decide.

He either accepted it or resisted its message.

Continuing to stand firm against the Word of God will bring hardships that will ultimately lead to death.

We can compare the works of the Holy Spirit to the sun. Some of the materials

They melt in the sunlight, while other materials harden, and so on.

Introduction 166


It is about the Word of God: The Word of God convicts some and they repent, and some

Others will wander around and eventually be punished.


The command of the Apostle Paul
The use of the power of God's Word is well expressed in Paul's instructions to the young Timothy.

"Preach the word" (2 Timothy 4:2).

The Word of God is “the sword of the Spirit,” but that is not His only weapon. We are called

To “take up the sword of the Spirit” and use it. The power of the Spirit is in it,

And it is up to us to observe that power. If we seriously begin to study it

As we read the Bible and meditate on its energy, we learn to understand the salvation of the unsaved.

We find and practice the Christian life, both individually and in the church.

Introduction 167




12

Using the Bible



Teaching the precepts of the Word of God in a way that is accompanied by practical application of it in

If there is no life, it will not be useful. In the last part of this book, we will focus on three

The vital and important issue is to focus on planting the truths of the Word in our lives.

First, we must respect the Word of God—the Word of Almighty God, which is filled with power.

And the sufficiency of all in all stages of life, the owner of the opinion - secondly, what should be

Which is really saying, let us know and not add anything of our own thinking to it. And finally, we must take the Word

Let us listen to, or pay attention to, the correction of the Bible and obey.


Respect for the Word of God

We face various demands throughout our lives. For example, our children

They demand things from us, our bosses have demands on us. And we want to

We will respect any request and fulfill it with sincerity. But we will do it with

Whether we respond to the Bible's request or not is up to us to decide whether this is

The message is from Susie. If someone speaks to us, they will command us and the word

He is our personal speaker, then we must open our ears and hear the message and

Introduction 168


Let us obey. But if we do not realize the power of the speaker from another source, we often cannot.

Let us decide whether to accept or reject his command.

This principle is also true of the Bible. Only when we can read the Bible

Let us respect the sacred by accepting it for what it is and obeying it.

1- The Authority of the Bible - We all accept someone's leadership when we

We are aware of some of his powers. This may depend on personal feelings.

We may follow the views of those we respect or

It may be the result of a supernatural discovery. Today, among many

It is common for believers to use their personal experiences as a criterion for the authority of the Bible.

The Bible may say one thing to one person, but not to another.

Don't say anything, everyone believes in their own way, with their own personal authority.

Such a position regarding the Bible is in fact a denial of the absolute authority of the Bible.

If the Bible tells different truths to different people, then it is actually true.

It does not contain. It conveys the truth in opposition to lies. But if everyone's point of view is correct...

There is neither falsehood nor truth. Such a special source of truth is found in reality.

The truth lies within ourselves and in the language of the Bible.

C.S. Lewis once said in relation to morality that man cannot

He established the ultimate criterion and wrote that "human thought has the power to create a value."

Planting a new sun higher in the sky or creating a new color in the spectrum,

"It does not have." The same can be said about truth. We are mortal beings.

We cannot be the source of ultimate truth. The second way to understand the power of the Bible is to see

Introduction 169


It is from the perspective of the community of believers or the church. This is a traditional position of the church.

It is Roman Catholic. Catholic author Karl Adam writes in his book The Catholic Soul,

"The Bible is not independent of the church."

Today, such a view is promoted by some liberal Protestant professors.

They are, given the existing belief in the inspiration and authority of the Bible,

The experience of the church means what the church has done in its own history in relation to the truthfulness of the voice of God.

God, taught, is considered the final arbiter of truth..in this order of the book

The Bible has not been given precedence over the Church as the authoritative Word of God, but rather the Church in

The expression of how norms are sought has surpassed the Bible. Ultimately, such

A situation is rooted in reality in its primary source, that is, human thought. Only in this case

It is where individual and collective participation prevails over individual thought.

Although the Bible was revealed by God through those who gave themselves to him,

The Christian community was a given, it could not be produced in any way.

The church and under the influence of the church, imagined. The apostles insisted that their power came from

The Church did not originate, but was taken directly from the Lord of the Church. The Book

The Bible teaches us that prophets and apostles were the foundation of the church (Ephesians 1:11).

(2:20), not that they are the product of the church. In this way, the inspired Word of the Bible is the foundation

Faith and action are in the Church. The Church has dedicated itself to the "teachings of the apostles."

The church must follow the teachings of the church (Acts 2:42 and also Galatians 1:8).

Let it be the command of the apostles, for the apostles speak the word of God (1 Corinthians 15:11).

1 Thessalonians 2:13.

Introduction 170


Another way to recognize the power of the Bible is to look outside our own minds.

Revelation is the witness of God. As we saw in previous lessons, the Bible

It claims to be the revelation and inspired word of God, and thus claims to have power.

It is absolute for all humans.

Isaiah's prophecy begins with these words: "Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth."

“Take heed, for the Lord has spoken” (Isaiah 2:1). Later, when people disobeyed God,

They turned their heads and followed other voices than what the prophet of God had said,

The Prophet said: "(Pay attention to) the law and the testimony, and if you do not agree with this statement, then

"There will be no light for them" (Isaiah 8:20).

The prophet Jeremiah warned against such power in the Word of God: "Cursed be the wind."

"Whoever does not hear the words of this covenant" (Jeremiah 3:11) in addition to many other statements in

In connection with delighting in the law of the Lord, the psalmist expressed his highest respect for

The law of the Lord says, "The hairs on my body stand on end for fear of you."

"I am afraid of your judgments" (Psalm 119:120).

In the New Testament, the apostle Peter also referred to the power of the Bible (2 Tim.

(2 Peter 3:2) In addition to all these things, Jesus, whom the church calls Lord and

The Master has confirmed himself, has accepted the full authority of the Holy Bible, and has

He has surrendered his life to the truth and its power.

The application of this measure to the Bible as the voice of the God of the universe, is abundant.

This application is nowhere more evident than in the life of our Lord. His thought

He was full of the teachings of the Bible and showed that he spent most of his time

Introduction 171


Study and reflect on the truths of the Bible. He certainly held the same view.

He had the same love for the Bible, and he took the same delight in it as the psalmist.

(Psalms 1:2; 119:14; 16:47-48; 97:11-12) Such knowledge of the Bible is

The title of the Almighty Word of the Heavenly Father was given to Jesus because he was perfectly obedient to the instructions of the Father.

That's it.

Our approach to the Bible should also be guided by this knowledge and respect for its absolute power.

Let it begin. This is the Almighty God who speaks to us in the Bible.

Our knowledge of this truth should bring us great peace and joy, as

The psalmist finds peace and joy in the Word of God.

The God of the universe has called us to his will and not only to do his will for us.

Our lives have not only declared, but in His love and grace He has promised us that we

He will enable us to have fellowship with Him. Knowing the power of the Bible

Soon, it creates a sense of awe and respect in our hearts for its presence,

As the psalmist created in his heart. I have sung many times that they are from the Lord.

Let us fear. This fear is “the beginning of wisdom” (Psalm 11:10) and “a fountain of life” (Proverbs 27:14).

It is. Fearing the Lord certainly does not mean being afraid of Him and His Word.

2- The Sufficiency of the Bible - We must not only be confident in the authority of the Bible

We must believe that its content is necessary for our lives. It is possible

The contents of the Bible may be valuable, but are they sufficient for our needs? And or

Should we take shelter somewhere else?

When we ask these questions, we get our answer from the apostle Paul, who

Introduction 172


The Bible is considered sufficient for human perfection and good deeds (2 Timothy 3:1-3).

(17:3) Jesus also forbade man from adding any words of his own to the message of the Scripture.

The Bible forbids it (Matthew 3:15 and 6).

It is this "law and testimony" that we always find the answer to life.

We know (Isaiah 8:20).

However, the claim of monotheism must be understood in the context and objectives of the Bible. The Bible

The Holy One has no claim to complete knowledge of all sciences. It is obvious that

For example, some facts about biology are not found in the Bible. The purpose of the Bible

It is he who makes us “wise for salvation” (2 Timothy 3:15). This is salvation in

The concept of perfection means a perfect life resulting from knowing God and His will and behavior in

The perfect light of His revelation.

Such a lack of God and His guidance for life is the sufficiency of the entire Bible.

As Matthew Henry said, "It is not written in the Bible that we shall be saved,

"But it is written, 'We must be holy.'"

The Bible in particular contains everything we need to

Salvation and Christian living are to be known by them. This is why the Apostle Paul wrote in

While hunting souls for Christ, he “discussed the Scriptures” (Acts 2:17 and 22:26).

Paul instructed the young Timothy to “preach the word and to preach the gospel.”

(2 Timothy 2:4, 5) Another special case was Jesus’ response to a man who

Jesus asked for miracles to make his brothers aware of the truth. Jesus replied:

"If they reject Moses and the prophets, they will not be guided even if someone rises from the dead."

Introduction 173


(Luke 16:31) The gospel is the power of God for salvation, and there is no other gospel than that which was preached.

In the Word of God, there is, there is not.

In the same way, the Bible is fully sufficient for our Christian conduct,

Some of the most profound statements in this regard are the hymns of the

The Psalms are in the great Psalm 119. The Psalms are in the word of God (verse 49).

He has also found Romans 4:15. He has found comfort and life in the Word of God.

(Verse 50) Wisdom greater than all his enemies and insight beyond all his teachers.

The Word of God has been found (verses 98-99).

Wisdom is the result of experience and age, but the Psalmist says, “From the elders

“I have become wiser because I have kept your precepts” (verses 100 and 104).

"A lamp to my feet, and a light to my path" (verse 105). This light and awareness

It is focused on salvation, not on the humanities.

No realm of knowledge has lost its influence under the influence of the truths of the Bible.

Some have said that the Bible is not only a revelation of the unknown God to

"It is not man, but God's great interpretation of nature." In the revelation of God, the key to us

It is given that the unlocker of the deepest secrets of creation is "philosophy, history, and all

Scientific levels are approved by the Word of God to be used for God's purposes.

Let's do it. Another thing is that the Bible is the standard. It is through the Bible that

We can understand the meaning of life and how to fulfill God's purposes for our own lives.

Let's do it.

Without the Bible, we are just a group of blind people on the path of life.

Introduction 174


We wander. But with the Bible, we can walk in its light.


Understanding the Word of God

A few months ago, our neighbor, who knew that I was teaching at the theological college,

He asked a question about the Bible and said that he had watched various sermons on television.

He has heard and noticed that the preacher has chosen each verse and

The speakers themselves use it. And ask, "Are all the epistles of the Bible with

"Are they compatible with each other?"

The Bible is a closed book for many people because it

They did not understand. The Bible, in strange language, describes events that happened long ago.

It speaks. For this reason, the medieval church often used ordinary people

It forbids the Bible.

Such reasoning, rooted in their ignorance, only led to chaos.

Interpretation of the Bible was the sole responsibility of the teachers in the church, contrary to such a view.

The Protestant Reformers proclaimed the clarity and clarity of the Bible. Purpose

They were not so clear that everything in the Bible was absolutely clear.

Their goal was to make the basic message of the Bible understandable to the average person.

It is. Having proficiency in the original language of the Bible and an awareness of the history and culture.

The Bible Age is very effective in understanding difficult parts of the Bible, but

The basic truths of salvation and our relationship with God may be understandable to everyone.

Pashtuns have such a view that the Bible itself is a mere address to the leaders.

It is not written, but is addressed to all of God's people.

Introduction 175


In addition, the Bible was to be read in the churches (Colossians 4:16).

And Revelation 3:1. And finally, these were the people who, in view of the truths they had learned from the Word of God,

They had received to determine whose claim was true (Deuteronomy 13:1-5).

                                                               Galatians 8:1. (9

Here are some general principles that will help us understand what God says in the Bible.

You say it helps.

1- Natural interpretation - The natural interpretation of the Bible is that we understand the language of the Bible.

Let us not imagine the sacred as a language other than what we speak with our bodies. God bless the writers.

Humans did not inspire some kind of cryptic language, if they did, there would have to be a key to it.

It gave us understanding. The hypothesis of inspiration, however, teaches us that God

The Holy Spirit used the language of ordinary people to convey His truth.

Ordinary human language is made up of words that are used in a specific grammatical context.

It has been formed. We have written a message with attention to the meanings of these words and their relationship in

We notice the construction of a sentence. In the same way, we notice the messages of the Bible.

We become. In addition, ordinary language uses words in different ways.

Sometimes we are directly aware of the meaning of a sentence, and sometimes we are aware of the variety of statements.

Allegory, including similes, metaphors, hyperbole, and parables. The biblical writers used

These same examples were used to convey their message, and it is important that we

We can identify them. To identify the difference between an implicit sentence and a

Symbolically, we must use all the teachings of the Bible and be aware of the knowledge of the day.

For example, when the Bible speaks of the "wings of the wind," our understanding of

Introduction 176


The wind tells us that the wing is used metaphorically. Another way is to say "fly".

When the Bible refers to God “riding upon the cherubim” (2 Timothy

(11:22) We should not immediately conclude that the meaning of the cherubim is because we have not seen them.

It is a metaphor.

Today, scientific realities are leading to very rapid results.

They believe that some parts of the Bible are not historical, because they contain events that

Man has never experienced them. The fall of man, for example, is the result of eating.

The fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and the conversation with the serpent, or Jonah and the great fish.

They imagine mythical stories for teaching spiritual truths. However,

Imagine how someone who believes in the God of the Bible, who is in control of his creations and

He intervenes for their good, he believes, and yet these events happen.

It is difficult to deny nature, considering that one has never seen it.

2- Conditional interpretation - one of the principles that guide us in the correct interpretation and application of the Book.

The Bible helps to understand the basic structure of the Bible. The Bible contains

There are no endless truths that God has somehow rained down from the sky into the heart of history.

Rather, it is a perception of God's revelation to his people in history that spans many centuries.

It has taken so long for God to ensure His purposes throughout history.

God's dealings with His people throughout the centuries when His plan has been revealed,

It has been replaced. In this way, in dealing with each part of the Bible, it is important

It is common to ask, “Who is this section written for and to whom is it addressed?”

For example, the Law of Moses with all its statutes was given to the nation of Israel and based on

Introduction 177


The Bible says that the mission of Christ was completed with the coming of Christ (Galatians 3:24-25).

The principles of justice that came in the Law of Moses are eternal and are passed on to the Church.

The New Testament is fulfilled, we should not insist that certain things

The law, which was for the welfare of the people of Israel at a particular time in history,

They have been performed by people throughout history. For example, one might think that

Specific rules regarding diet may be beneficial for health. But insisting that

Those are God's laws for all time, a completely absurd notion.

Not only must we consider the time and the specific people and their circumstances, but

We must consider the culture of those to whom the Word of God is addressed. The Book

The Holy Scriptures are written to specific individuals and provide specific guidance for life.

It has been given to them in their own culture. A clear example of this can be found in

Paul's command to "greet all the brothers with a holy kiss" (1 Cor.

(1 Thessalonians 5:26) or “wash one another’s feet” (John 13:14).

In such instances, the interpreter should ask whether taking such action is a

It is a universal command, or it indicates a particular culture's perception of universal principles.

Although some Christians still maintain the custom of washing each other's feet in church,

have, but most Christians see these two commandments as cultural models for

Expressions of love have been accepted as spiritual principles. Love among brothers is a principle.

It is always, and such love in that particular culture is in kissing, just as

Today, it is still common in many cultures, and foot washing is considered the pinnacle of

Service was expressed in that day. The enduring principles of commitment to service in

Introduction 178


Every culture is permanent.

A brief introduction to various ceremonies from the biblical era and a study of their connection to

Spiritual truths, keep us in the category of consistent spiritual truths that God has told us,

It helps. There are no clear indications that kissing is common throughout the Bible.

It has been, or even been a duty for all people. Or indirectly to

There is no spiritual effect of such actions.

3- Interpretation (Holistic) 1. Thomas Watson, Puritan priest on another important principle

"He has pointed out and written for the understanding of the Holy Book," the Holy Book is its own interpreter.

It is, or in other words, the Holy Spirit speaks in it, only diamonds are diamonds.

"Nothing can interpret the Bible except the Bible." Although

The Bible was written by human writers over a period of centuries. But

It is completely unified and harmonious, because it was written simultaneously and by the same spirit of truth.

It has happened.

Thus, the various parts of the Bible are not separate from each other and must be read with care.

To be interpreted as a general truth throughout the Bible. When we take a particular statement apart from

If we interpret other parts that contain that truth, we will make a mistake.

For example, when we read that Jesus forbade us from judging others (Matt.

(1:7) It should be understood in light of the teachings of the apostle Paul, who states that believers should not

They did not go to the courts of the disbelievers to decide their cases, but rather settled their differences

In the church, they are to resolve and divide (1 Corinthians 1:6-2). We will explain the same.

By God's command, we are to forgive others as He Himself forgives us.

Introduction 179


He pointed out that it is not necessary to generously forgive every wrongdoing that is committed.

They tell us to forget, but at the same time we must remember the word.

Christ taught that if the wrongdoer “repents, forgive him” (Luke 3:17).

The correct interpretation of any part of the Bible is when it is considered in light of the entire Bible.

Let's interpret the Holy Scripture.

It is obvious that the interpretation of any matter in the Bible goes beyond superficial awareness.

It takes time, effort, and training. But what if we receive a letter from someone we love?

We have, we should have, even if it is written in another language, all our efforts

We use it in understanding its contents. The nature of the Bible as the Word of God and

Its vital truths for our lives make it worth our effort to understand.

It seems.


Hearing the Word
The final link for applying the Bible in life is listening.

J.A. Barker wrote, “God has spoken, and Godliness and Godliness

"Hearing the word of God means to give our ears to it, to

Let us pay attention to it, learn it, and practice it. Such hearing means when the promises of

We read God's words and understand their meaning, we practice them. We believe in them.

We rely on the value of God's Word, because it is the powerful words of our God.

Hearing the Word of God also means applying its principles in every kind of relationship.

In life, that is, the relationship between man and God, husband and wife, children and parents,

We have obeyed citizens and rulers, even in dealing with enemies and friends.

Introduction 180


We are true hearers of the Word of God when we place it above fleeting joys,

Let us count in advance, because we believe in someone who has much better ways of happiness than us.

He knows the truth.




ـ


1- Holistic interpretation, meaning the interpretation of a part based on the entire book.

