Biblical Archaeology


Author: Dr. John Elder


Translator: Soheil Azari




Nur Jahan Publications

Table of Contents

Preface


Beginning of the investigation


The Book of Genesis in the Light of Archaeological Discoveries


The Fall of Adam, the Messiah, and the Flood


Ur and the Sumerians


Joseph and the Israelites in Egypt


Moses and the laws of his time


The conquest of Canaan


The era of the kings


Northern Government


The End of Judah's Reign


Ancient calligraphy and inscriptions


The Age of Archaeology


Old copies of the Bible


The first chapter of the Gospel of Luke


The paths that Paul took


The Seven Churches of Revelation

Preface

We usually consider the first days after American independence as the era of the spread of religion and faith. With the incarnation

The early immigrants, who went to church in groups with guns on their shoulders, we think that in that golden day all believers

They were and no one was caught in doubt or disbelief. Therefore, many people, familiar with this truth, at the beginning of the century

Nineteen doubts and atheism ruled the minds of educated and enlightened people, causing them to be amazed and astonished.

We read that Dartmouth College produced only one religious and faith-filled graduate in four years, and also,

We know that the total number of Americans who were church members at that time, compared to the country's population, was one-third of the population.

The seventh congregation that has membership in American churches today did not transgress.

One of the reasons for the disbelief of the American people at that time was the lack of belief by most people in the accuracy of the contents and

The subject was the Bible. Many educated people, under the influence of the ideas of French skeptical writers, considered the Bible

They considered it a collection of myths and legends without historical basis and assumed that this was a daily occurrence.

The era of the book ruling the minds of the people is over. The era of the book ruling the minds of the people is over.

Voltaire's statement that within a hundred years Christianity would be consigned to the graveyard of dead and extinct religions is widely accepted.

History's scholars and scientists were unaware of the ancient civilizations of Babylon, Nineveh, and Tyre, and therefore they interpreted the stories of the Bible with suspicion.

And they considered the greatness of the civilizations of those lands to be legendary.

Christians and followers of the Bible are also subject to attacks and criticism from this group of people.

They had no answer to those objections. Those who had a firm belief based on the Holy Book insisted

That the Bible, since it is the Word of God, must be accurate and reliable. On the other hand, scientists also believe

It is a collection of myths and legends, it cannot be the word of God. The religious people, the relations were that because this book

The two groups were tightly intertwined and dark. It should be remembered that some aspects of the Bible are not

The "Golden Rule" has value and validity regardless of whether it has a historical basis or not.

The reliability of the historical narratives of this book is the Golden Rule. The moral teachings of Christ and Paul, even if these

People who have no historical existence are inspiring and instructive. The value of prayer and the blessings that come from drawing close to God are known to all.

People understand, and love of neighbor, even if it is ignored in practice, is a principle that all people need.

They have that.

But, although the moral teachings of Christianity are self-sustaining and attract hearts to themselves,

The foundation of Christianity would be shaken if its narratives were devoid of historical basis. Our understanding of God the Father,

Who made the Jewish people a means to represent Himself, sent prophets to guide and lead the people, and then

He found himself fully in the person of his Son, Jesus Christ, who was crucified for our sins, died, and rose from the dead.

The rise of the Zahir, if it lacks historical validity, will have no religious value. In this case, this

The truth that "we love him because he first loved us"...can no longer be the strongest motivation.

For the sacrifices and struggles that the history of the world remembers, but your dream will be empty and a myth.

It was.




The development of biblical archaeology has narrowed the gap that has emerged between scholars and followers of the Bible.

It had become full of construction. Gradually, he came across ancient cities and civilizations that he remembered only from the Bible.

Archaeologists dug up soil from under the mounds and their history became clear. In the following pages of this book,

We will become familiar with the efforts and endeavors that have been made in this direction. As a result of the continuous efforts of archaeologists,

Cities whose names had been forgotten were rediscovered, the effects of the work and efforts of their inhabitants were revealed, the effects and stories

Historical events whose stories are told in the Bible were brought out from under the ground, and the superiority and uniqueness

Christianity became evident and visible in comparison with ancient religions.

Of course, one should not assume that archaeology has been completely forgotten until our own day.

Tablets and inscriptions found in Iraq indicate that Assyrian Bani Pal, the great warlord king of Assyria, who

He ruled in the 7th century BC (626-668), boasting of having discovered ancient inscriptions and

He sent scribes to the corners of his empire to transcribe important ancient documents and transfer their copies to his library.

The discovery of this library by "Rassam" in 1852 was one of the most important events in the history of archaeology in the nineteenth century.

A century after him, Nabonidus, the last king of Babylon, showed great interest and devotion to archaeology.

He excavated and examined the ancient city of Ur, examined the inscriptions relating to its founding, and

Then he carefully placed them in their places and paid his respects to his followers. His daughter, who

She was Belshazzar's sister, because her father was interested in archaeology and founded a small museum to display ancient artifacts.

It is unfortunate that the motivation of ancient archaeologists was more the pursuit of antiquities than a familiarity with ancient history. Especially in Egypt,

Where valuable Baha'i treasures were buried with their owners, unauthorized looters opened the graves,

They looted their treasures. Even during the time of Ramesses IX, a commission was set up by him to investigate this matter.

It was determined that the contents of all the ancient tombs had been looted, and the bodies thrown out of them.

They have been looted, and their valuables and equipment have been looted.

In recent times, Napoleon of France was one of the first to begin research and exploration in

The ancient ruins provided facilities. By 1798, he had brought hundreds of French scientists, researchers, and artists

He took it with him to Egypt, and he wrote down these wonders of ancient Egypt along with sketches and watercolor illustrations.

The publication of these writings and images by the French government created a stir and excitement in French academic circles, and

The interest that then arose among French scholars in Eastern countries never faded. Among

The most important and valuable of all the discoveries made during Napoleon's time in Egypt is a tablet called the "Rosena Stone", which is written in the language

and guided scholars to the codes of hieroglyphic writing. But the work of the delegation that accompanied Napoleon to Egypt was

The study of the artifacts that remained on the ground did not go beyond that, and the investigation of the artifacts that were buried deep in the soil was carried out.

The future is entrusted.

At the beginning of the nineteenth century, an East India Company official living in Baghdad reported that among

There are artificial hills on the banks of the river that appear to be the remains of ancient cities. It was this report that drew the attention of the ancients.

It attracted scholars such as Layard and Botha to the historical monuments of Mesopotamia, and their explorations in this land yielded results.

It brought great rewards. The story of these explorations will be told to the reader in future chapters. Before entering

To get to the main discussion of this book, I would like to talk about the methods and approaches that archaeologists of various nations have used in

For over a hundred years, they have been used when exploring historical sites. Look at me.

The early excavations were nomadic and destructive compared to today's methods, because those who carried out these excavations

The excavations they carried out had no purpose other than collecting interesting objects for museums. In these excavations,

Objects such as broken pieces of pottery were ignored, and the excavators did not take notes during their work.

Therefore, valuable and useful information that could have reached us has been lost due to the negligence and carelessness of the early excavators.

Gone to the wind. It soon became apparent that the hills that had been created on the site of ancient cities were the remains of several cities.

They have been built, and sometimes there are thousands of cities between the founding of the oldest and the last, built on the ruins of another.

It has been a year. Naturally, the latest cities were built on the ruins of their predecessors, but the remains of the cities of

They are not always arranged in regular, overlapping layers. It has often been seen that a small town

It was built in the middle of the hill, and after its destruction, a larger city was built on it, covering the entire hill, and

As a result, its remains are located around the hill at a lower level than the ruins of the previous city. Therefore, when excavating these hills, care must be taken.

And great caution was required to distinguish between the different classes of excavators, each belonging to a specific era and civilization.

and determine their age.

Scientific archaeology began with excavations conducted in 1890 by Sir Flinders Petrie in Tal al-Hassi,

The event took place in southern Judea and lasted for six weeks. These archaeologists discovered the remains of the cities of

He separated the various ones that were placed on top of each other in almost regular layers and based on the objects and artifacts

Makshof, especially of pottery vessels, determined their date and age. He proved that by measuring and matching the shape and

The types of tools and objects found in different layers of ancient ruins can determine the history of successive civilizations.

And after archaeologists collected a considerable amount of artifacts, tools, and living utensils of ancient people,

They were able to determine the age of each of their types with approximate certainty. In certain periods of time, many of

These objects have been common and widespread in various forms in wide areas of the world, displacing other types of objects and tools.

The invasions and invasions of other civilizations have brought new inventions and discoveries to those regions.

Archaeologists rushed. The invention of the camera allowed archaeologists to document the location of discovered objects before they were brought to the

To continue the excavation, they must record their movements accurately and precisely.

Airplanes made it possible to see ruined castles and cities that were not visible from the ground.

X-rays also help archaeologists. In the case of mummies, X-rays are sometimes used to

They have determined the age and sex of the body's owner. With the help of infrared rays, they have been able to read ancient inscriptions that

They were difficult to read and chemical compounds were also used in this case. One of the newest and

The most useful tool used by archaeologists is the examination of ancient human remains and artifacts through

It is known as carbon-14. It is said that a certain amount of carbon present in all living things is carbon-14, not carbon-14.

12. This carbon-14, like radium, is volatile and unstable, and gradually disintegrates into carbon-12, scattering off loose particles.

This transformation and evolution begins after the death of living beings. By determining the rate of this transformation,

The date of death of that entity was made clear with certainty. In short, those aspects of new sciences that can be applied in archaeology

It has been used to illuminate the darkest corners of the lives of ancient people, helping archaeologists.

The success rate of the excavators has reached a point where a thorough study of the many unknown historical artifacts they have found is

They have been doing this for many years. Now, with some of the most prominent and important fruits of their efforts,

And we become familiar with the efforts of archaeologists to uncover the secrets of ancient human life.

Chapter One


Beginning of the investigation

The first scientist to conduct research and study in this field was a person named Buta1, who

In 1842, he was appointed consul of the French government in Mosul, in the upper Tigris valley.

He stated that he was ready to collect all kinds of antiques that were sometimes found in the areas.

He would search the area, and at the same time, he would try to identify the place where these artifacts were discovered. He spent some time in this work.

He had no luck, until one day, by chance, an Arab villager discovered an artificial hill in

He found it nearby, where for centuries the local people had obtained the bricks they needed. Botha hired two people.

He sent them there with the necessary instructions to dig the ground and see if anything would be found. A week later the message

They were excited to learn that after digging the ground they had come across ancient walls covered in paintings.

The striking color and carving of the animals are strange. Buta was led to the aforementioned place and was convinced that this

The walls are the remains of a magnificent ancient palace built by the Assyrians. These ruins lie east of the Tigris at a point

It was located twelve miles north of the city of Mosul, and as it later became known, these ruins are the remains of the city.

                                                                           The ancient "Dor Sharo Kin" was 2.

After arriving at this place, Botha noticed that the walls were covered with images carved on stone slabs.

The scenes depicting battles, troop movements, animal hunting, and court life were covered and several

It covers an area of 1000 hectares. At that time, no one could read the cuneiform inscriptions found here, but

After the key to the code of these lines was obtained, it was revealed that this palace, which covers an area of 25 hectares, was built by the second exile.

King (705-722 BC), whose name is completely forgotten and is only mentioned in Isaiah 20:1, built

1
                                         Paul Botta
2
                                         Dur Sharrukin

Despite this, the aforementioned palace is the most magnificent and grandest palace ever discovered in history and is home to one of the

The greatest empire in the world. When news of the discovery of these ruins reached Europe, in scientific and archaeological circles,

It created a lot of excitement.

The publication of this news created the same excitement as Christopher Columbus' arrival with the news of the discovery of a new continent.

It was established in the minds of many Europeans, especially the French, because for many people in Europe, this achievement was the discovery of the world.

It was new and forgotten. Before that, the Nile Valley was considered the cradle of civilization, but now this pride of that valley

The Tigris and Euphrates were being explored. The French government immediately allocated a considerable budget for the continuation of the explorations, and Buta

Using this budget, it was possible to produce five volumes of a comprehensive book with more than four hundred illustrations about the results of excavations and research.

Using these images, Europeans were able to familiarize themselves with the clothing, weapons, household items, and hunting methods of the Assyrians.

become acquainted, and as a result, a new chapter in history was opened for the Assyrian Empire.

The second person who made a lasting impression on the Baha'i people in biblical archaeology was Austin Henry.

Layard is an Englishman. He was filled with a great enthusiasm, which arose in him from his acquaintance with the results of the excavations of Botha, but almost without

No financial assistance was given to Badan Su to find more traces of the history and civilization of ancient Mesopotamia. He

He was amazed to see the large artificial hills that covered the place, and with the limited financial assistance he had received,

It was dug up in one of those hills in a place called Nimrod, twenty miles south of Mosul and one and a half miles east of

The Tigris began. Later it was discovered that these were the ruins of the same city of Caleb, mentioned in Genesis 11:10.

The success he achieved was unimaginable. Within twenty-four hours he was able to destroy parts of two palaces.

He brought out the palaces belonging to the Assyrian emperors from under the ground. Wherever he dug into the ground, he came across rooms.

Which is made up of huge marble slabs seven feet high, on which are carved or painted amazing images.

The oldest place where Nimrod is mentioned is in Genesis 10:8-9.

It is sacred. The content of the verse of the Psalm is as follows: “And Cush begat Nimrod, who began to be a mighty one in the world. He was in

In any case, the news of the presence of God was a powerful hunter. This is why they say: "Like Nimrod the mighty in the presence of God."

The successes of this archaeologist aroused the greed of the local Turkish ruler, and he decided that if the treasure

The precious stones that he believed were to be found here were not worth the effort to stop the excavation.

As a result of the shape of his sculptures, his work was temporarily halted, but fortunately his other oppressions and pressures

He aroused such hostility and opposition from the people that he was forced to leave his post.

As a result, excavation continued at the same speed as before.

One night, shortly after the excavation had begun again, there was a sudden commotion and the workers shouted.

The charioteers and dancers came to him and announced that they had found Nimrod! Later it was revealed that what they had found was a lion.

The Great Winged One is a stone statue that was the statue of one of the four celestial gods of the ancient Assyrians. Gradually, the collection

A large number of statues of giant winged bulls with human heads and other goddesses with eagle heads were found, mostly

It was sent to the museums of England.

As these excavations continue, the clear description that Ezekiel gives in his book (chapter 31, verses 3-12) of this

"He has conquered the land." This Assyria... all the nations of the earth have descended from under his shadow, he has conquered the land.

"They will leave." And archaeologists have discovered how Zephaniah's dire prophecy about this nation (chapter 2:11) came true.

13-15 The fulfillment is complete. "And he will stretch out his hand against the land of the north, and will destroy Assyria...every

"Anyone who passes by it will laugh at it and wave their hand." As a result of these excavations, the city of Kaleh was discovered.

It was discovered that the palace whose remains were found belonged to Assyria Nasir Pal, who ruled from 885 to 859 BC.

He reigned.

In 1849, Layard was at another site called "Koyunjik," which is the ruins of the city of Nineveh.

There, in the Tigris Valley opposite Mosul, he began to dig. Within four weeks, Sennacherib's palace, which was

He reigned from 704 to 681 BC, and the description of the siege of Jerusalem is given to him in the Book of 2 Kings (Chapter 18).

Verse (19) He came, he was brought out from under the ground.

Among the valuable historical artifacts found here are numerous inscriptions on the walls of

Built of mud bricks, and very beautiful mosaics, on which there is a phrase in white cuneiform.

The turquoise background was written, it was called.

Their paintings mostly used black, yellow, and blue colors, and some of the images he found

The most famous of these is the image of a lion in a fight, symbolizing the skill and taste of the lion.

Nineveh was the capital for only ninety years, but during this time it expanded greatly and was surrounded by two brick walls.

The inner wall was 32 feet thick and 86 feet high. This impressive city was surrounded by a deep moat 77 feet wide.

The foot was enclosed and connected to the outside by fifteen gates.

These discoveries removed any ambiguity about the history and greatness of ancient Assyria. Despite this, the most important

The artifacts that were found, namely the thousands of inscriptions that covered the walls, remained mysterious and secret, because

No one could still be found who could read cuneiform and understand the meaning of these inscriptions. In the end, this honor

Henry Rawlinson was the first to be awarded the title, and through his studies of Western Iran, he succeeded in discovering the cuneiform code.

The unknown man, while traveling to India as a volunteer soldier on a ship, caught the attention of one of his fellow passengers.

He attracted himself, who was an orientalist, politician, and ruler of Bombay. As a result of his acquaintance with him, Rawlinson was inspired by the works of

He became interested in the antiquity of Iran, and in later years, when he was promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel in the British army and

The East India Company was sent to Kermanshah as a representative and consul, and had the opportunity to put this interest into practice.

After arriving in Kermanshah in 1833, Rawlinson's attention turned to reading cuneiform, and he devoted himself to

He was entertained by studying a tablet located six miles from Hamadan and called the Ganjanama. While studying the tablet,

Psalm, he guessed that some of the words used in it must have the meaning of "king" and also three

The one named as king must be Darius and Xerxes the king and Vishtasb. Based on this conjecture, he

He was able to identify the possible meanings of one-third of the syllables used in the inscription. After that, he turned his attention to

1
                                         Henry Rawlinson

The larger and more complete inscription was located at Beiston, 26 miles from Kermanshah. Here the mountain chest is of dimensions

25 and 50 feet high, carved out of the plain several hundred feet above the ground, with huge carvings along with cuneiform lines.

It has been carved prominently. These carvings have long attracted the attention of tourists and travelers, and everyone

He interpreted its meaning in a way that was not possible. A traveler who saw the inscription in the tenth century AD described the pattern on it as a teacher.

He thought he was teaching his students and imagined that this teacher had a whip in his hand with which he was beating the students.

Another traveler in the nineteenth century considered it to be a depiction of Christ and the apostles, and thought that Judas was underfoot.

The thrown Vahura Mazda is a type of cross. If this tablet shows Darius fighting against enemies

He is standing with the ropes tied together and has one of them under his feet. And the picture above

It can be seen that Ahura Mazda is.

Copying this inscription required great courage and perseverance. Of course, part of it was copied by

A ladder can be copied on a thin stone slab located under the board. In this way, Rawlinson

He copied 1,200 lines of the inscription and, after continuous study, was convinced that the inscription was in three languages.

It was written in various languages and eventually he was able to translate four hundred lines of ancient Persian. It was discovered that this inscription was written in

555 BC. It was built by order of Darius, and describes his struggles and battles with claimants to the crown and throne.

In this inscription, Darius described the boundaries of his vast empire, and cursed all those who

In order to prevent his work from being disrupted, he applied a glossy substance to the surface of the tablet, which increased the strength of the inscription several times and made it 2400

The year has been safe from accidents, they are covered.

Rawlinson published a translation of the Parsi text of the inscription in 1847 and then, with the help of scholars,

He also translated and published another Babylonian phrase written on the Biston inscription. It goes without saying that reading

The Babylonian script required more effort, because in this script a single symbol was sometimes a word, and it was even possible to

It was written in several different characters. These problems had for a while discouraged scholars from reading it, until the tablet

It was found that contained a list of pictographic letters along with the written letters. Nearly a hundred different tablets

It turned out to be a relatively complete dictionary of the Babylonian script and language.

Understanding the meanings of these inscriptions and resolving the problems that arose with their discovery is somewhat difficult.

A group of people thought that those scientists who claimed to have reached their conclusions were mistaken. The British Museum,

In order to test their words, he decided to investigate this matter. To this end, among the inscriptions that were still

The study was not conducted, one was selected, four copies were prepared, and each copy was given to one of the experts.

They gave cuneiform texts to translate and send to the British Museum. One of these scholars was Rawlinson.

The aforementioned specialists, without being aware of each other's work, translated the inscription and sent it to the museum.

Comparing the translations, it was found that there was no difference between them in important matters. After this test, any doubts and

Doubts have been raised about the authenticity of scholars' statements regarding these inscriptions. Tablet Twenty-One, given the important role it played

During the discovery of cuneiform codes, it is rightfully considered the most important historical monument and artifact in Asia. As a result,

Acquaintance with the facts gained from the discovery of the contents of the Biston inscription became known to Darius, as mentioned in the books of

Ezra (Chapter 5, Verse 5 and Chapter 6, Verse 1-7), Hajj (1:1) and Zechariah (Chapter 1, Verse 1) are narrated, historical existence.

He had and was the ruler of a vast and powerful empire.

Since after the discovery of all these amazing historical artifacts and inscriptions, scientists have been conducting research for a while.

It should not be surprising that progress has been slow in this area, because thousands of inscriptions have been unearthed to date.

And it had been transferred to European museums, and those who were able to understand their contents did not exceed a few.

For this reason, their translation was slow. By doing so, they expressed a keen interest in continuing research and excavations.

It happened.

Years later, the British Museum hired a young and talented scientist named George Smith.

Arrange the cuneiform inscriptions.

One day, while he was working, he came across an interesting inscription that originally consisted of six columns, but

Three of its columns were missing due to the fracture of the inscription. When Smith examined its words, it became clear that the inscription

It contains a story about a ship that landed on a mountain peak called "Nazir" and a dove that flew from it.

The flight has arrived, unable to find a place to sit, and has inevitably returned to the ship. Suddenly, the scientist

The young man realized that he was busy reading the Chaldean text of the story of Noah. The excitement that came from this discovery was overwhelming,

He made himself scarce. The Daily Telegraph gave him a considerable budget, which he used to

Al-Nahrin went to try to discover the rest of this story. Smith went to Nineveh in 1872 and began research and

He continued the excavations of previous scholars on a larger scale. Among his discoveries in Mesopotamia, the most important was

There were cuneiform inscriptions, the number of which exceeded thirty thousand. These were the remains of a large library that

Assyrian Banipal collected inscriptions of his time, most of which were copied from inscriptions in the ancient Babylonian library.

It was conceived, it was founded. Ashur Banipal, who lived in the time of Mansi and Chasha, had a great desire to create.

The collection of texts and inscriptions of his time, and in the inscriptions collected in the Nineveh Library, the description of the actions

He devoted himself to preparing copies of inscriptions and texts from that era.

Smith was successful in his efforts to discover documents and inscriptions that would complete the story of Noah.

He found it complete; and in addition, he obtained documents about the backstory and found numerous other inscriptions that

It completely illuminated the life of the ancient Assyrians. The information thus obtained about the life and thoughts of the Assyrians

The antiquity of the scholars' grasp is more than the knowledge they have about the conditions of the early inhabitants of England.




1
                                         George Smith

Chapter Two


The Book of Genesis in the Light of Archaeological Discoveries

Comparing the Chaldean and Assyrian texts of the creation story with what is found in the first chapter of the Book of Genesis (one of the

The Torah (which has come down to us) is an interesting and at the same time instructive discussion. The Babylonian story is like this: “When the sky was

No name was given, the land had not been named, the ocean had been created very anciently, Tiamat was confused and

In one was the mother of them all, their waters joined together in one place. Then the gods were born, Lahmu 2 and Lahmu 3.

The second and fourth inscriptions of the war between Marduk, the hero of the gods, and the god Anu appeared.

Tiamat, the god of chaos, has spoken. In this war, victory will be Marduk's, and that victory will be the victory of light.

It is dark. Marduk took Tiamat's body back, "as a fish is cut in two." Then he took half of the body

He builds a barrier across the sky, appoints a guardian over it, and commands him not to let the waters escape from it. He

(i.e. Marduk) builds for the great gods bases, which are stars, he determines the zodiacal region, the years

He determines the year, divides it into twelve months, places three stars for each, and makes the moon shine.

"Make it rule over the night."

Comparing the creation story from the perspective of the Babylonians and the author of Genesis, we find similarities and at the same time contradictions.

We encounter several. Both speak of a time when emptiness and nothingness filled everything.




1
                                      Tiamat
2
                                      Lahmu
3
                                      Lahamu
4
                                      Ansar
5
                                      Anu
6
                                      Merobach

In the Bible we read how light overcame darkness and replaced it with order and order.

Chaos ensued. In Babylonian mythology, we also observe that Marduk, the god of goodness, fought with Tiamat, the god of chaos.

It leads to death.

In the Bible, God created the dry land, separating it from the sea. In the Babylonian myth, Marduk

He creates the soil and spreads it beside the water.

In the Bible we read that God creates the sun, the moon, and the stars that shine in the heavens.

To rule. In Babylonian mythology, Marduk creates the stars to be the bases of the gods.

In Genesis, the Creator creates animals and reptiles, as in the Babylonian creation story.

He attributes animals to a group of gods.

From a religious perspective, the contrasts between these two stories are quite significant. Man is possible

It is easy to imagine that the brilliant civilization of Babylon, with all the advances it had made in the sciences and arts, must have been a progressive religion.

But historical facts prove otherwise. Jews attribute creation to God and a single Creator.

They attributed, while the Babylonians believed that the universe was created by a multitude of gods.

We read in the Bible that God created the world with a series of wise measures to ensure

Human happiness has taken place. In Babylonian mythology, the creation of the world is a secondary and implicit result of a war that took place between the gods in

The book of Genesis says that the Spirit of the Lord moved upon the waters of the Golan and made them still, while the Babylonians

The gods believed in a terrible war in which the gods defeated the gods of chaos. The journey of the creation of the pure and

It embodies the Supreme Being, while the Babylonians believed in the existence of cunning and evil gods who fought and destroyed each other.

In short, wherever Babylonian mythology conveys unacceptable and religiously worthless material,

The story of the Bible, in its beauty and simplicity, contains sublime religious themes. Archaeology, while proving

The fact that the Jews were a small and politically insignificant ethnic group shows that their religious beliefs were not widely known in the world.

It has been unique.

Here the question arises as to whether belief in the unity of creation began earlier or the worship of gods.

Multiple? The Bible paints a picture of man gradually abandoning the worship of the One Creator and turning to the worship of others.

According to this interpretation, the prophets of Israel and the Jews were the innovators of the new idea of multiple gods.

They were not, but they wanted to return their people to their ancient faith, which was based on the worship of the one God, Jehovah.

They find and sometimes their struggle leads to defeat and failure. They return. Sometimes they succeed in their purpose.

However, in recent years, scientists influenced by the theory of evolution have sought to change this current of human thought.

They believe that polytheism, or the belief in the existence of multiple gods and deities, was the most primitive form of religion.

This success was ultimately the lot of the Jewish prophets, who were able to realize the existence of the One God, the nation

Familiarize yourself with it as well. The research into how archaeology answers this question is itself a debate.

It is sweet and attractive.

First of all, it should be borne in mind that archaeology has proven that progress and evolution are always

It is not inevitable and necessary, and the growth and progress of humanity has been accompanied by decline and decline. Until now, the traces and remains of civilization

Things have been brought out from under the earth, the splendor and grandeur of which dazzled the eyes of the world's people, but

After a while, they disappeared and were buried underground, as if they had never existed. In fact,

It seems that the general rule of civilization has been that it should be accompanied by moral and religious changes. The history of Iran, Greece, Rome, and

Israel is a witness to this truth. The inhabitants of these countries, in the earliest stages of their civilization, were known for their loyalty, purity, and faithfulness.

They were known for their lofty goals, but in later periods we observe these same people who, despite their abundant wealth,

And the brilliant achievements they have achieved in science and art are leading to decline and degradation in morality and religion.

Moral decadence leads to the weakness and oppression of nations and the collapse of empires. The striking difference between the living conditions of the

It is a living testimony to the current inhabitants of Iraq and the brilliant civilizations buried alongside them.

This is true. Therefore, the idea of monotheism as the highest form of religion predates the worship of gods.

Many have arisen, but they have no scientific or historical basis.

Dr. Langdon, a former professor of Assyrian studies at Oxford University, who was widely believed to be the

He was the greatest expert on cuneiform inscriptions, wrote a book on Semitic legends, and concluded that they were monotheistic.

It is the oldest religious belief of mankind. He writes in his book: "I may not be able to prove that in the Semitic religions

And Sumerian monotheism precedes the worship of multiple gods and the belief in good and evil spirits. The evidence and evidence for

Such a conclusion is necessary and based on commonly accepted opinions and theories, with complete accuracy and taking into account

The opinions of opponents of this theory have been collected. In my opinion, this theory is the result of scientific research, not

"Insane images."

The aforementioned scholar then made a commentary on the beliefs of the Tazyans of South Arabia and the Akkadians, resulting in

"Therefore, I absolutely reject the hypothesis that the Hebrew and Canaanite religions were based on animal worship."

I am. The early Hebrews and Canaanites, in the days when we were able to obtain clear and reliable information from them,

The primitive form of animal worship (if such a belief was prevalent among them) was widespread.

The Semitic tribes generally, apparently, combined their worship with the belief in the existence of a single tribal god, who they believed was the heavenly creator.

Humans have begun to be themselves. The Semitic word for God originally meant "He who is supreme"; and in

Here too, I believe that religiosity began with monotheism. The Semitic tribes probably used "Allah" as their

They worshipped their first god. In my opinion, the history of the oldest religions of mankind shows the rapid descent of mankind from

Monotheism is the excessive worship of multiple gods and spirits, both pure and impure.




1
                                         Langdon

Another scholar, Sir Peter Lepage Renouf,1 translator of the Egyptian book "Amawat", writes about this:

» More than five thousand years ago, in the Nile Valley, the belief in the unity of God and the eternity of the soul emerged. The belief in the unity of God

The Almighty and His description as Creator and Lawgiver are among the primary knowledge of man, which, like an imperishable diamond, stands among the

The myths and legends that had accumulated over the centuries shone brightly. There was no doubt that the apparitions

"The Egyptian religions are not the relatively recent results of a series of reforms and developments or the elimination of harsh and primitive things."

So it turns out that in Egypt too, monotheism existed before polytheism or the belief in the existence of multiple gods.

It is also noteworthy that the name of God is completely similar among all the so-called Indian and European nations.

"Zeus Pater", which is the Greek god, is combined with "Diaeus Pater", which the ancient Indians called God, and "

Jupiter, "4" by which the Latin god is called, is apparently derived from the same root. Among the northern tribes

The European god was called "Tyrus", which is probably also a diminutive of "Jupiter". Therefore, the theory that all these nations

They once worshipped a single God as their heavenly father and had a monotheistic religion that was

It gradually transformed into the worship of multiple gods, and has a solid foundation.

Another late writer, Professor Schmidt, a Viennese, in a book entitled

He has published the Principles of the Development of Religion, and from his studies with archaeological research around the world, he concludes that, according to

Existing scriptures generally suggest that primitive humans believed in a supreme God and eternal life.

Thus, it is observed that the increasing archaeological evidence and evidence supports this teaching of the book.

It is sacred that early man, as a result of intellectual and moral evolution, abandoned monotheism and embraced the worship of multiple gods.

The prophets were not the originators of the belief in the unity of God, but they tried to lead people to faith and belief.

Their ancestors will return.

1
                                       Sir Peter Le Page Renouf
2
                                       Zaus Pater
3
                                       Dyaus Pater
4
                                       Jupiter
5
                                       Tyr

Chapter Three


The Fall of Adam, the Messiah, and the Flood

One should not expect any trace of the Garden of Eden, described in the second and third chapters of Genesis, to remain.

It may remain. But the Bible is a good guide to determining its location. In the second chapter of Genesis we read:

A river flowed through Eden to water the garden, and there it was divided into four heads. The name of the first river was Pishon.

It surrounds the whole land of Havilah, where there is peace. The name of the second river is Gihon; it flows through the whole land of Cush.

The name of the third river is Hadim, which flows eastward into Assyria. And the fourth river is the Euphrates.

We have no doubt about the existence of the last two rivers, because we know that at least the same river was referred to.

Today it is called the Tigris, and the Euphrates is still known by the same name. But about the first two rivers, namely

Pishun and Jihon, researchers have resorted to various hypotheses and conjectures. Some have associated them with the Aras, Nile,

The Indus or other completely incomparable rivers have been considered the same. The Pishun River may be the same river as the one in

Southwest Iran is a current and daily flows into the Persian Gulf with the Tigris and Euphrates. Of course, this is not a foregone conclusion,

Thus, Professor Deltsch1 found in Babylonian documents a list of the names of irrigation canals, among which are two named

These two rivers are not dissimilar. One of them is the "Pisano", which is thought to be the same as the Fishon, and the other is the "

"Johanu" is perhaps another name for Jihon. Therefore, it is possible that these two rivers, which probably originated much later,

It is believed that the area was the same as the ancient Garden of Eden described in the book. Another possibility is that

A possible proof of this is the name "Edin"2, which in ancient documents refers to a plain located in the south and

The name of Babylon is given. Therefore, there is no doubt that the same garden mentioned in the Genesis account was located in the same area.

There is nothing left.

1
                                          Delitsch
2
                                          Edin

Also in ancient Babylonian documents and works is the tree of shame, which is also described in the Book of Genesis (Chapter 2).

Verse (9) has come, is mentioned, and its form has been repeatedly embodied in stone tablets. The Babylonians believed that everyone had a fruit

This tree will never die. The image, which is seen in the form of a cylinder on the tablet, seems to be the obsession of Adam and the tree.

It embodies life.

As mentioned above, we have numerous documents from the Babylonians and Assyrians regarding Noah's flood.

The most important surviving piece of ancient Babylonian literature is a war poem called "Gilgamesh."

It has two hundred and five verses. This poem tells the story of Gilgamesh, the great Assyrian hero, meeting a person named "

"Ot-Napeshtim," who had been elevated to the position of god, explains.

"Gilgamesh" asks the person how he has received this great gift. He also answers

It refers to a great flood and says that four gods decided to wipe out humanity from the face of the earth.

They threw them away. But "Eu", the god of the earth, who was the worshiper of "Ut-Nepheshtim", with knowledge of the intention of the gods mentioned above, "Ut-

He informs Napishtim of the impending flood and tells him to build an ark for himself and his family.

It is ready to receive the flood. In this way, "out-of-the-box" builds a ship and uses it to prevent the infiltration of

He fills the water with power, provides food and drink in it, and gathers all living creatures in it.

And he takes his family members on board the ship with a crew of workers and a captain. "Shamash" Sun God, History

It determines the occurrence of storms, and this meaning is expressed in the poem: "In the morning, at dawn, a dark cloud of

The sky rose, and "Roman" 2 created thunder in the midst of it. Then "Ninip" 3 created destruction. The spirits of the earth

They took out their torches and illuminated the earth with their flame. Every bright being turned to darkness, in the sky

The gods were afraid of the flood and fled, ascending to the sky of "Anu" (4). The gods crawled into their dens like dogs.


1
                                       Eu
2
                                       Ramman
3
                                       Ninip
4
                                       Anu

And they were terrified... The wind blew for six days and nights. The flood and the storm covered the earth. And because the seventh day

It arrived, the storm subsided, the sea retreated, and the bad wind ceased. Like a blizzard, the storms of the swamps were found.

I opened the window and a light shone on my face. I was stunned and fell to the ground. I sat on the ground and cried. Around

I looked out to sea. A ship was sitting on the shore of the "Eagle". I sent out a dove and it flew out. But

Since there was no place to sit, he returned. I sent a swallow out. I sent a crow out and it flew out and hit the water and made a sound.

The snow fell and did not return. I sent the animals in four directions. I sacrificed on the top of the mountain, seven by seven vessels.

"I burned incense there. The gods smelled the sweet aroma and, like shepherds, they gathered around the sacrifice."

The similarities between the Babylonian flood story and the Genesis account can be summarized as follows:

He summarized:

(1) The news of an imminent flood is given to a wrestler (2) He builds a ship (4) The wrestler

He takes the animals with him into the ark (5). The flood comes and destroys what is outside the ark (6).

The flood and storm subside and the ark rests on a mountaintop (7). The wrestlers throw birds out of the ark.

He sends them, and the last of them does not return (8). The wrestler, finding the land dry, makes a sacrifice in gratitude (9).

The gods accept the sacrifice (10). He is given assurance of the future.

Thus, once again, there are striking religious and moral contradictions between these two narratives.

Let's see. In the book of Genesis we read that the flood and the storm were sent to punish sinful mankind and destroy the wicked. In

The Babylonian story attributes this event to the whims and desires of the gods. According to the writer of Genesis, Noah, because

He was a chaste man, and was saved from the flood. But in the Babylonian story, the wrestler was saved by the help of one of the gods who was with him.

He was and is playing the role of a spy, risking his life to save Salem. The story of the Bible is based on monotheism.

While Babylonian mythology relies on the most primitive form of polytheism and belief in the existence of multiple gods, this



1
                                       Nisir

Meaning that there is discord and disagreement among the gods, the gods hate each other when the flow of things deviates from the normal course.

They will scold him, the gods will tremble with fear and hunger, and like shepherds they will come to smell the sacrifice.

They gather. One of them, despite the anger and disapproval of the others, saves someone from danger, and is saved.

Among the gods, a place is given. Among the religious, once again, there is a striking difference between the way in which the concept of events is deduced.

It is presented by the author of Genesis and his contemporaries as the cradle of the most advanced civilizations of the time.

But the reality of this flood of archaeological research leaves no doubt. One of those archaeologists,

In the name of Dr. Woolley, who conducted research and excavations in Urkalde, in southern Mesopotamia, and published the results of his research

He explains as follows:

"After the depth of the pit we had dug increased, the soil type suddenly changed and instead of

We reached completely pure soil, covered with garbage and pottery vessels, which were placed in several layers.

This layer of soil was found to have been deposited by water. The workers thought they had reached the bed of an ancient river...

I made them continue digging. The pure clay soil continued to a depth of more than eight feet. Then, again

The soil type changed and we encountered layers filled with garbage, heavy tools, and pottery vessels. The layers

The clay soil was full of the remains of the Sumerian civilization, which was gradually developing according to its normal course, but the remains were

In the layers below this, a mixed civilizational monument was found... A normal flood of sedimentary river would not survive to this thickness.

It is undoubtedly a monument to a rebellion that was unprecedented in the history of this part of the world. Another reason for this is the

An event is a break that occurred in the course of civilization; meaning that the civilization that was growing and evolving there

It was buried underground and a completely different civilization arose in its place. And there is no doubt about that.

It was possible that this flood was the same flood recorded in the name of Noah in the Book of Genesis and also in Sumerian legends.

It has been reflected.



1
                                        Woolley

In excavations carried out at a slightly higher point, namely in "Kish", 1 this type of soil was found.

Two layers of clay have been observed at different heights.

"The date of one of these layers has been estimated at 3300 BC and the other at 4000 BC," Langdon said.

It is believed that the Urkade sediments, which are already eight feet thick, are followed by the sediments below "Kish", which are nineteen feet thick.

It is lower than the upper sediments. If this theory is correct, it is known that the larger flood occurred around the year

4000 BC, and a smaller flood occurred in 3300 BC. If we look at the date of this flood from the Bible,

Let us determine, the year 2400 BC is obtained, and if we look at the Greek text of the Bible, which was written in 300 BC.

Translated, we will determine the year 3200 BC.




1
                                       Kish

Chapter Four


Ur and the Sumerians

Before archaeologists dug up the soil of Mesopotamia, readers of the Bible were blessed with success.

And they had no information about the civilization of Ur, which was the home of Abraham. While the daily life of this city

Today, it is nothing but a desert without water, grass, and no inhabitants. However, as a result of the research of "Woolley" and

Other scholars have found that Ur was a magnificent and wealthy city and the capital of a great nation.

Geologists believe that the Persian Gulf originally extended from the north to present-day Baghdad. In those days, the Karun people came from the

The Mashreq and another river that has dried up today and flowed into it from the Arabian Desert. Over time, these two rivers have

They filled the northern shallows of the Persian Gulf with their sediments and created vast deltas on both sides.

The wide gorge that had formed in its north, traces of which can still be found, was gradually filled with the sediments of the rivers.

The Tigris and Euphrates rivers were dammed up, and the land that was created by humans had fertile soil, and due to the heat of the weather, three years of drought were possible.

It was arable four times. This area gradually became the home of a people who came to be called Sumerians. The date of the arrival of this group

It is not exactly clear here. They are physically similar to the inhabitants of Afghanistan, Baluchistan, and the Indus Valley.

They had rectangular shaped seals that closely resembled seals discovered on the banks of the Indus River, and

Their artistic and architectural remains testify that their civilization was similar to that of northwestern India.

Therefore, it is likely that these people migrated to Mesopotamia by sea from southern Iran and northern India.

The land that this people chose to settle in became known as Sumer, and the north of it was called Akkad.

The Sumerian civilization that arose here is one of the greatest ancient civilizations in the world. This civilization

It reached the peak of its splendor and grandeur around 2700-2400 BC. Their architectural features were used

It is the construction of columns and arches and domes, and this architectural style became common in Europe several thousand years later. Artists and

Their artisans used gold and wire, not only for jewelry but also for their vessels, tools, and weapons.

It was usually made of precious metals. Although the use of copper was common among them, many tools and vessels were made of

It is made of precious stones and remains a monument to them.

In the tomb of one of their first princes, named "Mes-Klem-Dag" (or "Dog"), works of art

Many outstanding works have been obtained, which testify to the great taste of their artists. One of them was made of gold.

It is a sculpture whose branches are intertwined. The ears, cheeks, and head are all carved with skill and precision in this image.

In this tomb, there are also numerous vessels, a lamp resembling mother-of-pearl on which the prince's name is engraved, a dagger

Gold, a golden sword, and a silver belt were found. In addition, two axes made of silver and hundreds of coins were found.

Gold and lapis lazuli, in addition to a quantity of gems, have also been found there. Inscribed mother-of-pearl tablets have been discovered elsewhere in Sumer.

It is a testament to the exquisite taste and abundant skill and craftsmanship of their designers. The skill and craftsmanship of the artists and craftsmen

They become more apparent when we remember that this area was entirely agricultural land and other things were completely out of reach.

It was brought there from abroad. Zinc from the north, copper from Oman, tin from Cilicia, gold from Elam and Antioch and from the Persian Gulf, and

Marble was brought from Iran by the body. But despite its elegance and the time it was used in their works of art, according to the Quran and

The available evidence suggests that this civilization belonged to a very oppressive and cruel people. The burial of kings was accompanied by mass sacrifices.

He was accompanied by his subjects, because the bottom of the pits in which the bodies were placed were of men and women who apparently had been killed there.

The killing has arrived, it has been piled up. At the entrance to one of the tombs are the bodies of the guards with daggers and copper spears.

In this tomb, the bodies of 9 women, dressed in embroidered clothes, are placed at the end of the tomb enclosure.

In front of the entrance to the tomb are two large four-wheeled chariots, each with three bulls, on which are the bones of the chiefs and their drivers.

They are seen placed above their heads. In the tomb of Queen Shub-Ad (2), the bodies of two court women are laid out in two rows.

They are placed parallel to the queen's body, and a female harpist with a harpist, and two servants, while they are bowing.



1
                                           Mes-Kalem-dag
2
                                           Shub-ad

They are seen at the end of the coffin. They are the embodiment of the fear and terror that befalls those close to the king and queen when they die.

The problem is very difficult.

In war, the early Sumerians were also very ruthless people. They often killed those they captured in battle.

They were captured and killed, and those captives who survived were condemned to slavery for the rest of their lives.

The cities they captured were not only plundered and pillaged, but also razed to the ground, and

Those of their people who survived were scattered and wandered in the surrounding areas. Almost exactly

It seems that one of the reasons for the destruction of this civilization was the oppression and cruelty of its owners.

In religion, too, when their civilization had reached its peak of development, they were extremely polytheistic. In

Many houses have been found with multiple idols, and these are undoubtedly the same idol that "Rachel" took when she fled from

Jacob took his household with him (as narrated in Genesis 31:27-32). This

The idols had many priests, all of whom were greedy people. This was due to a decree issued by King Uru Kagina.

Lachish, 2 went out and forbade the high priests from entering the orchard of the poor women, and from picking the fruit and taking the wood, as is known.

The king also gave the money that the priests demanded from the people in exchange for performing funeral ceremonies to a

The fifth reduced and prevented the priests from owning temple lands.

Their temples, at the same time, were centers of learning, and most of them had schools for the training of scribes.

Writing cuneiform, which had hundreds of signs, was difficult, and the letters written in that day were

Commercial letters constituted a large number. During the excavations, several tablets were found that were written on a

On them are written the students and on others the teachers. On some of them the teacher has written the signs of the alphabet and the student has written the same.

has written on the back of the board. In lessons designed for more advanced students, the teacher provides examples of

Only verbs and the derivation of nouns are written. Mathematical tablets include tables for extracting roots and cubes, as well as


1
                                         Urukagina
2
                                         Lakhish

The formula for calculating the area of a land is not geometric. Of course, it is difficult for us to imagine that Abraham

That day he was trying to extract the root of the problem numbers, but he was probably familiar with this work. In this

Temples, list of weights and measures, Sumerian-Semitic dictionary, medical information, such as basic surgery, properties of herbs, etc.

Magic formulas and spells have also been discovered. At that time, there was no money and transactions were based on barter or payment.

The wire and gold were being used.

Its most prominent religious monument is a tower in the shape of a very tall four-sided pyramid, which has

It was built in several layers. Some researchers have speculated that these pyramids are imitations of temples that

The Sumerians built them on mountains in their homeland. Also, the Sumerians may have used these temples as

Shelters used in times of flooding. The tower has a base measuring 200 by 150 feet.

It was about 75 feet high. This building was built of solid brick with a perimeter of 8 feet.

The base was made of baked bricks and its inner walls were made of mud bricks. Its upper terraces were irregular in shape and probably rested on

They were growing trees. This tower had a staircase with a hundred steps. The staff consisted of priests, servants,

The harem consisted of a minister of war, a minister of agriculture, a minister of transportation, and a minister of finance. The offerings that were offered to the gods were

There were extensive warehouses where cattle and sheep were received, as well as warehouses for barley, cheese, oil, and wool.

Inside the temple were spinning and weaving workshops. Raw wool was delivered to them by weight.

The length of the cloths that were woven was carefully recorded. Profit and loss account in parallel columns

It was being maintained.

In Abraham's time, the city was 4 by 1.5 miles. Its streets were narrow and uneven, and transportation was difficult.

Transport did not move within the city. Loads were carried by porters and carts. Most of the houses in those two classes were

It had 12 to 14 rooms. So, when Abraham heard God's call and left this city, he was free from all its comforts and conveniences.

Civilization was dying that day. This call required abandoning ancient human interests and rushing to an unfamiliar and strange land.

Obviously, we should not expect to find a person like Abraham in the annals that remain from the kings of that era.

It is interesting to note, however, that a tablet was discovered in Babylon in which a person named "

"Abarama," which is called "he who has paid his rent." What can be inferred from this tablet is that

Abraham was at least one of the common names of that era. In explaining the story of Abraham, the Bible refers to a land

South of the Dead Sea, it indicates that it had a large population and inhabited cities, while today there is only

The desert of Lam Yazr is not seen without inhabitants. But here too, archaeologists' research on the accuracy of what is written in the book

The Holy Scriptures bear witness to this region. Dr. Albright, a professor at Johns Hopkins University, wrote in this regard:

He writes: "These and other repeated studies that have been conducted confirm the very ancient narratives of the Bible."

It slowly proves that the Jordan Valley was a very settled and extremely populous land when Abraham arrived there.

The most brilliant period in the history of this valley coincided with the early Mesopotamian period (2500-2000 BC).

That civilization was completely destroyed and not a trace of it remained. Some time ago, the American edition of "Dread's Digest" magazine,

An article about the use that colonial authorities made of the book to gain access to the resources of Palestine in the last century.

This article explains how the geologist "Kozle Federman" 2, guided by

The book of Genesis (chapter 19, verses 24 and 28) found that there are natural gas and oil resources in the Dead Sea area.

After learning of this fact, geologists went there and found evidence that such resources existed there.

It was a testimony. Today, they have found oil resources by drilling wells here. Also, there is a hint that the presence of trees

"Gaz" went to that area, reassuring the colonists that they could re-establish the professions of this tree there.

They succeeded in doing so. Although the ruins of the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah have not yet been discovered, traces of sulfur have been found.

And volcanic deposits testify to the occurrence of volcanoes. The water level of the Dead Sea is gradually rising. As it is today

You can see the structures buried under water. Therefore, it is possible that these two cities were located in low-lying areas.

They may have been highlands south of the Dead Sea that later sank underwater.

1
                                         Dr. Albright
2
                                         Xiel Federman

In summary, all the conditions and circumstances of this land around 2000 BC, as archaeologists have

They explain it, with what is narrated in the Book of Genesis about it in the time of Abraham, and with a strong possibility of coincidence with

It was the same date, it fits perfectly.

Chapter Five


Joseph and the Israelites in Egypt

The story of Joseph is one of the most fascinating chapters in the Bible. The hero of this story is a young man named Bakht.

He is a returnee who is sold into slavery to the Egyptians, is unjustly condemned, and ultimately becomes a second person.

becomes powerful and influential in Egypt. This story is also mentioned in the Quran, with many references to it.

The short stories that have been written so far have become more beautiful and interesting. However, in none of the numerous inscriptions

which has been found by archaeologists in Egypt so far, there is no direct reference to him and his life is contradictory.

It has not been seen. But a few years ago, a private tomb was discovered by a man named "El-Kaab", a contemporary of Joseph and ruler of one of the states.

Egypt, was opened, and an inscription was found in it that includes a description of the famine that occurred during his reign.

The people have been sick, and he has saved the poor from starvation with the wheat he had stored during the years of abundance.

Apparently, this famine occurred during the time of the Hyksos kings, and the explanation given in the inscription on how to combat it is

The story is completely similar to what is narrated in the Book of Genesis about Joseph. Furthermore, as can be seen from other inscriptions,

It turns out that the lands of Egypt, which in the past mostly belonged to the barbarians, at this time, with the exception of lands dependent on

Temples became the property of kings. This is also consistent with the Genesis account (18:47-22), which states that

The people of Egypt, because they did not have money to buy their own food, gave their land to the Pharaoh to grow food.

They did, it matches.

On the other hand, there could be no doubt that the person who wrote the story of Joseph in the Bible was

The living conditions of the Egyptians and their language were familiar. Titles such as "Chief of the Saqqans" and "Chief of the Khabazans" appear in inscriptions.

Egypt is mentioned, and the story of Joseph's progress is entirely consistent with the interpretation of dreams. On the Pharaoh's birthday, feasts were held.

1
                                         El-Keb
2
                                         Hyksos

It would have been, and it seems quite probable that Pharaoh would have released the prisoners on that day. The magicians in his court

They were numerous and shepherds were considered abominable. The life span of the people of that time varied, such as the life span of Joseph, one hundred and ten years.

It was common among the Egyptians to mummify the bodies of important and knowledgeable people.

In the last verses of Genesis, we read that Joseph asks his relatives to take the bones of his father.

He was taken to Canaan after his death, and in Joshua 32:24 we note that according to that request his body was taken to Palestine.

Carried, it is buried in "Shekin". For centuries, there was a pre-burial in Shekin that was called the tomb of Joseph.

It was known that a few years ago this tomb was opened and a body was found in it that had been mummified according to Egyptian customs.

Along with this body, there were also objects in the tomb, one of which is a sword that Egyptian officials wore at their waists.

Close.

The evidence obtained so far confirms the accuracy and historical reality of this narrative.


The Exodus of the Jews from Egypt

Among the later events of the history of the Jews, their deliverance from Egypt, God's miraculous help to them,

During the forty years of wandering in the wilderness, and the conquest of Canaan, it is considered one of the most important events, and at the same time it is a representation of

Jehovah’s constant attention is on their condition. In Psalm 105:26-43, God is called to help them find salvation.

The Jews are praised for their deliverance from the Egyptians and are mentioned in the prophecies of Hosea (1:11, 9:12, and 4:13).

This event is repeatedly referred to. It is after this event that the Jews become acquainted with Jehovah and discover that

God made them His chosen people. It is also after this fact that they obeyed God's commandments through Moses.

They receive, and it is only then that God's miraculous intervention takes place to save this people.

According to the abundant evidence available, Canaan was conquered by the Jews in the second millennium BC.

The problem that arises in this case is that some of the existing documents do not date this event.

It dates it around 1450, while other observations place the date around 1290.

Considering the chronology of events in the Bible, the history mentioned in the Book of 1 Kings (1:6) refers to the building of the Temple in Jerusalem.

This is consistent with the date of the Exodus, i.e. 480 years after the Exodus. Since Solomon ascended the throne around 965

And the construction of the Temple began in the fourth year of his reign, or around 962, the Exodus of the Jews from Egypt was necessary in

It happened in 1442 BC. According to this, Thothmes III, who was born in 1436 BC, in the past, was the Exodus king.

The Jews of Egypt were the Pharaoh of that country. According to the inscriptions found in Egypt, he built several buildings in

Egypt, and according to the remarkable inscription that has survived from his time, the Samians were worshipped in the temple he built.

"The king who did not know Joseph" must have been the Pharaoh Ahmose who was the king of Egypt.

Drive the Hyksos out of Egypt. Establishing a new dynasty required a breath of fresh air from forgotten individuals.

The exodus of the Jews from Egypt took place in 1436 and they spent forty years in the desert.

They must have conquered Palestine around 1400 BC.

In 1888, an Egyptian woman in a place called "Tal-e-Umra" came across a set of inscriptions.

He came across cuneiform inscriptions whose contents confirm the authenticity of the first date. These inscriptions consist of four hundred letters.

It was sent by various rulers of Palestine to the Pharaoh of Egypt, and in them he repeatedly called for the throne and the tribal crown.

The name "Heber" is mentioned. One of the rulers mentioned in the Psalm was "Abdehepa" 1, the king of Jerusalem, who ruled for more than

He expresses concern about the attack of this tribe and asks Pharaoh to come to his aid. He writes: "The tribe of Habiri

"They will plunder all the king's lands and these lands will fall into their hands." "Although Pharaoh had previously conquered Syria

Having occupied it, many of his vassal cities, such as "Zimrida" 2 and "Yaptik" 3, now fell into the hands of Heber.

"And if no troops are sent, the fall of the Shah's lands to Haber seems certain." In the letter

Another one sent by the king of Canaan, Pharaoh has been asked for forces to prevent the overthrow of the Taz tribe » Sagaz


1
                                      Ebed Hepa
2
                                      Zimrida
3
                                      Japtik

"1" who have been called the desert savages, and other evidence suggests that at this time there were continuous and severe attacks from

A people called "Hebrews" (Hebrews) inhabited Palestine.

Furthermore, according to documents recovered from the destroyed cities of Palestine, this country was

1400 BC. It has suffered a devastating attack. After digging up the "Jericho" point and testing nearly a hundred thousand pieces

Ceramics and about one hundred and sixty-five potsherds, Garstank 2 has concluded that this city was founded in 1400 AH.

.M. Destroyed by fire. An unnamed archaeologist excavated the site of the city of "Mahur" and found that that city was also in

Around 1400 BC, “Beit Tzur,” which is mentioned in the Book of Joshua (58:15) among the cities of

It was not called a copy, but was also destroyed on the same date. In the Book of Joshua (chapter 8, verses 24 and 28)

The complete destruction of the city of "Ai" has been described. Numerous documents have also been found at the site of this city, indicating its destruction.

In the middle of the Middle Ages, or the year 1400 BC. A summary of the documents found in the ruins of the cities of Palestine by

Archaeologists have discovered that this country was invaded and conquered around 1400 BC.

It has been completely destroyed, and this is completely inconsistent with the contents of the "Tal-e-Omran" inscriptions and the history mentioned in the Bible.

It matches.

Other evidence regarding the date of the Jews' exodus from Egypt places this date earlier than previously stated.

Some of this evidence is based on excavations carried out in the ruins of the city of "Phaeton" in the

"Joshen" has been implemented. In Exodus (1:9-11) we read that the Jews were forced to build this

The city and the city of Ramesses, both of which were treasure cities, were to participate. Archaeologist Edward Navilla, with his research

It has been proven that the city of "Phaeton" was built to store supplies and was full of treasure chambers that were filled with

The brick walls were 8 feet thick and perfectly solid. Some of the half-baked bricks were mixed with straw and some with

It is also molded without straw, and this is exactly according to the narration of Exodus (7:5) which says that the overseers of


1
                                       Sa Gaz
2
                                       Garstaug

They refused to give straw to the Israelites. Almost the entire city is covered with treasure chambers. But as if from

Inscriptions indicate that this city was built by Ramesses, who reigned about two hundred years after Thutmose.

It should also be taken into account that most of this king's construction work took place in the south or Upper Egypt. Therefore,

It is likely that the construction of these cities was begun by the Hebrews and continued after their exodus from Egypt during the time of Ramesses, who

1301 to 1234 BC. It has been long, but it has come to an end.

Another witness to the accuracy of the recent history is the numerous excavations carried out by archaeologists in "Edom".

It has been implemented and, according to research conducted in "Moab" and "Ammon", these two countries were founded thirteen centuries ago.

They did not exist, and cities and governments had not been established in them until that date. The Book of Joshua records the existence of these two countries.

It is possible that the conquest of Canaan was not done all at once. The book of Joshua makes this clear.

But so far, it has not been possible to satisfactorily synthesize all the facts and evidence that have been obtained in this regard.

If Ramesses II was the pharaoh who reigned at the time of the Exodus,

The Israelites must have worked for him, and then fled the country around 1290 BC and returned in 1250 BC.

They attacked Palestine. And when the length of their stay in Egypt is added to this calculation, this result

It will be found that they entered Egypt in 1720 BC. This will coincide with the time when the dynasty

The Hyksos took control of Egypt.

It is noteworthy that the only inscription containing the name Israel found in all of Egypt comes from

The inscriptions belong to "Marmpetah", the son of Ramesses II. This inscription, made of large sumac stone,

It was found in the mortuary temple of "Marmpetah" in "Thebes" 2. Around 1229 BC, he ordered that

The description of his conquests is engraved on a stone. In this inscription he writes: The result is that "when the princes

They speak of peace, having fallen to the ground as a sign of surrender. Not one of the nine lands raises its head.


1
                                        Meremptah
2
                                        Thebes

Libya is devastated, the land of Canaan is cleansed of all corruption, Ashkelon is taken captive, the island of Tsekhir is destroyed.

It has become as if it never existed.

The people of Israel are oppressed and crushed, they have no one to turn to. Palestine has become a widow for Egypt.

"All the kingdoms have been united. They have become peaceful." So it is found that on this date, i.e. 1229 BC, Israel

It is considered a recognized power. On the other hand, this document dates the time of the Jews' exodus from Egypt to the present day.

It is closer, because if Joshua established a powerful government in it in 1250 BC.

Chapter Six


Moses and the laws of his time

We do not have accurate information about the route the Israelites took after leaving Egypt, but the forests and springs

The remains that remain acquaint us with the early stages of that journey. A phrase used during the journey out of the Red Sea (the Red Sea)

(Translated: Originally it referred to a part of the marshy shore of the Red Sea that was covered with wood, and this marsh was covered with wind.)

Strong winds, as indicated on the body's exit journey, have changed the location. The arrival of Quebec is still an event.

It is common in this area, and every year hundreds of barrels of this bird, hunted in the Sinai Desert, are shipped through the Suez Canal.

It is exported. The Sinai Peninsula, as described in the Book of Exodus, is a dry, barren agricultural land.

Which is used only for grazing four-legged animals.

During the wanderings of the Jews, it was in this wilderness that God revealed His laws to Moses. In the past

Many harsh critics have argued that all of these laws, with the possible exception of the Ten Commandments, are

They were compiled much later than the Bible suggests, because these laws are a manifestation of advanced civilization.

There are those who lacked it in the time of Jesus. This issue has also been clarified by archaeological discoveries.

Among the historical documents related to the Mosaic Law that have been discovered so far, perhaps what was found in Susa (in

(Iran) is the most important of all the finds. J.D. Morgan, a French archaeologist, in 1884 in this area

He conducted an excavation and during it, he came across the remains of one of the ancient palaces of Iran, whose appearance suggested that it must have been the same.

It is the foundation upon which the story of "Esther" is built.

The artifacts that the unnamed archaeologist found here were so abundant that they filled two entire rooms.

The Louvre Museum in Paris dedicated its exhibition to them. In 1900-1902, these archaeologists conducted their research in

1
                                        J. De Morgan

The ruins of Susa captivated him once again, and this time he came across broken pieces of a tablet, which after reading its words,

It turned out to contain the laws of Hammurabi, the king of Babylon. Before that, it was thought that Hammurabi lived about two thousand years ago.

He reigned before the year 1000 BC, but the documents found in Mari, on the Euphrates, date his reign.

He dates him to the years 1728-1676 BC. Numerous inscriptions have survived from him that tell the story.

He was a great ruler and unified Babylon. His name is Amraphel, with whom Abraham fought (Genesis, Chapter 11).

(14) His dominion extended to the Mediterranean coast and, according to the numerous documents at hand,

He had great ability in creating organizations. He built the city of Babylon with wide streets. He did this by collecting

He carried out all the laws that had remained from the kings of Sumer and other governments in his realm and imposed them on the

He made an engraved tablet and placed it in the temple of Marduk for public viewing.

This tablet is beautifully carved from stone and contains 247 laws written in 3,600 lines.

It is written. Its height is seven feet and the circumference of its base is six feet. The prominent pattern seen above it is

Hammurabi is depicted standing before "Shamas", the goddess of law and justice, and receiving from her the heavenly law and decrees.

He receives and embodies the command. The ray that shines from the deacon's shoulder is a symbol of his glory, and his finger and

The staff he gives to Hammurabi is a symbol of power and kingship.

At the beginning of the inscription, it is said that the gods called Hammurabi, who shines the light of justice and who is the one who destroys the oppressors.

And he took their oppressors under his protection. Then he learned about the laws and ceremonies of the time and the regulations that were practiced in Babylon.

The first part includes the laws of property concerning individuals, property, transactions, and commerce, and in general,

The second part of the laws relating to individuals is explained in terms of family matters and labor laws. Because of the similarity of the laws

To familiarize ourselves with the laws of Hammurabi, we will compare a portion of them below:

Exodus 21:2 If you buy a Hebrew slave, he shall serve six years, and in the seventh year he shall go free.

Hammurabi: 117 If a man is a debtor and sells his wife, son, or daughter, or gives them to a

A slave is hired, they serve three years in the house of their buyer or owner, and are freed in the fourth year.

Exodus Chapter 21 Verse 15: Whoever kills his father or his mother shall be put to death. Hammurabi: 195 If a son

He who strikes his father, his hand shall be cut off.

Exodus 21:16 Whoever kidnaps a person and sells him or is found in his possession shall be put to death.

Hammurabi: 14 If anyone steals another's young son, he shall be put to death.

Exodus Chapter 21 Verse 24: Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.

In exchange for a foot. Hammurabi 196v: 7 If anyone destroys the eye of another, his eye shall be destroyed, and if the bone

To break someone's bones.

Exodus 21:26 “If a man strikes the eye of his male or female slave, he shall put out the eye of his male or female slave.

Free his eyes. Hammurabi: 190 If anyone puts out the eye of another slave or breaks his bone, he must pay half of his

Pay his price.

Exodus 21:28 If an ox gores a man or a woman, that they die, the ox shall be put to death.

They should stone the cow and not eat its meat, and the owner of the cow should be innocent. Hammurabi: If a cow kills someone while crossing the street,

If the horn is alive and causes its death, no penalty will be imposed.

Exodus 21:29 But if the ox has been goring before, and its owner knows it, and keeps it

He did not look and killed that man or woman, the ox was to be stoned and its owner was to be put to death. Hammurabi: 151 If the ox

A person has a habit of blowing his horn, and this has come to the knowledge of his owner, and he has not cut off his horn or put it in a cage, and

If that bull gores a young cow and it dies, he (the owner of the cow) must pay half a mina in silver.

Exodus Chapter 21 Verses 1 and 4 and the last verse: 3If a man steals an ox or a sheep and kills it or

If he steals a live ox or sheep, he shall pay five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep.

If his hand is found, he shall pay double... and if he has nothing, he shall be sold for the theft he committed. Hammurabi: If

If anyone steals an ox, a sheep, a donkey, a boar, or a goat, if the stolen thing belongs to God (the temple) or to the king's palace.

He shall pay thirty times as much, and if the animal belongs to that person, he shall pay ten times as much, and whenever he has anything to pay

If he doesn't have it, he will be killed.

Exodus 22:2 If a thief is caught breaking in and is struck so that he dies,

There shall be no bloodguilt for him. Hammurabi: 21 If anyone enters a house to steal, he shall be put out in front of that house.

They will destroy him and bury his body in the same hole he created.

Exodus 23:8: "Above all, a bribe blinds the seers and distorts the words of the righteous."

Hammurabi: 4 If anyone gives grain or money (as a bribe) to a witness in court, he himself must bear the consequences.

It is up to the court to determine.

The laws of Hammurabi seem very harsh and oppressive when compared to the laws of the Persians of that era. In this

The laws provide for the death penalty for thirty-two types of crimes. For a priestess who opens a tavern or for someone who has sex with

A person who is forbidden to enter and steal when a fire is started is punished by burning. The person who is the buyer

To deceive while selling drinks, for someone who commits adultery, for a woman who is reckless and inconsiderate, or when

The husband who forcibly leaves the house must be drowned according to this law. This law punishes a woman who causes the death of a child.

If she were to become her husband, this would mean that a bullet would be fired through her body. Amputation was a punishment that was imposed for several crimes.

A tyrant was burned at the stake, a slave who injured his master's son had his ear cut off, and someone's eye was gouged out.

They would remove the eye that had blinded another. The surgeon's hand would be injured during the operation, causing death.

They would cut out, and cut out the tongue of the slanderous boy.

It should be noted that the Code of Hammurabi and other similar laws were considered civil laws that

Only at the beginning is there any mention of God, while the Mosaic Laws were essentially divine laws and all of them were based on divine decrees.

They came directly from him. That similar detailed laws existed in the Near East even before the time of Moses

Indeed, the best evidence for the invalidity of the claims of some researchers is that they consider the Mosaic Laws to be a creation of later times.

Another important and noteworthy discovery that has helped clarify the history of the compilation of the Mosaic Laws is

In 1928, archaeologists discovered a place called Ras al-Shamra, located in Syria. A peasant woman who

A farmer was busy plowing the land about ten miles north and a half miles from the coast, with the remains of an ancient building.

When news of this incident reached Beirut, two archaeologists, Claude Schiffer1 and Georges Shani2,

In 1929, they decided to explore the aforementioned site. The city that emerged from the ground as a result of their excavations

It turned out to be the ancient city of "Ugarit", which was one of the most important cities in the world two thousand years before Christ, and because of

Its proximity to Cyprus and the trading centers of the Near East made it a center of trade and civilization.

Among the important artifacts found here is a library filled with hundreds of cuneiform inscriptions, which

Eight or nine languages can be named, apparently for the use of priests and scribes. In this inscription

The names of the Achaemenids, Hittites, and Hebrews are mentioned. Apparently, this city was founded around 1400 BC or around the time of the invasion.

The Hebrews, mentioned in the inscriptions of the Tal Omrna Badan, have been destroyed. These inscriptions range from one and a half to ten inches in size.

They are long, and some are written in two or three different languages, and contain the text of treaties and letters of commerce and the best

Language and religious slogans are the order.

The religious themes of these inscriptions reflect belief in multiple gods, among which Elam is the third of all gods.

It seems that their cult was originally monotheistic and based on the worship of "El". "El"

It is a name given to God repeatedly in the Old Testament (including in Genesis 20:33) or in words such as
1
                                      Claude Schaeffer
2
                                      George Chenet
3
                                      El

"Bethel," meaning house of God, and "Penuel," meaning face of God, are added. One of the inscriptions found in

The last known mention includes the image of "El" sitting on a throne and presenting a gift to the king of Ugarit.

It has.

Another noteworthy point is that many of the common sacrifices of the time of Moses or before were

These inscriptions are described in the same specific terms as those found in the Hebrew text of the Old Testament.

The spotless sacrifice, the guilt offering, the wave offering, the consecration offering, and the firstborn are all called by the same name in the book of

Leviticus has come. The ritual of boiling a kid in its mother's milk is expressed as a magical formula for producing rain.

This is the same practice that was forbidden in Exodus (19:23).

In the inscriptions, the name "Baal" is repeatedly mentioned, and the child is called "El" and "Ashirim", and

This is also worth noting, because many critics have said that the reference in 1 Kings (19:18) to

"Ashirim" is not very reliable, because the worship of "Ashirim" became common long after that, in a way

These inscriptions date the popularity of its worship back centuries. Another noteworthy point in these inscriptions is

It seems to be a reference to a man named Daniel who was a wrestler and was said to have "justice for widows and orphans."

"He has provided." It is likely that this is the same Daniel mentioned in the book of Ezekiel (14:14 and 20).

It should be noted that this discovery has consequences.

It has been important. First, it is known that the opinion of those critics who said that because in the time of Moses, writing was in Palestine

The laws attributed to him were not common and could not have been compiled by him in that era, and are therefore not considered authentic.

No, because according to the existing Quranic texts, there were about eight or nine languages in that region of the world that had writing.

There has also been a belief that the ceremonies described in Exodus and Leviticus must have been performed for centuries.

After they came into existence through gradual evolution, as a result of these discoveries, these ceremonies have been discredited and known for a long time.

It was common in that land before Moses. It is certain that Moses introduced the existing and current ceremonies of his day.

He took them, freed them from immoral aspects and ugly and polytheistic practices, and used them for worship.

The one true God created merit.

Chapter Seven


The conquest of Canaan

In the Book of Joshua, chapter 8, verses 10-28, we read the thrilling story of the capture of the city of Ai, near Jericho, by

We are reading a war trick. It is difficult for someone reading this story to determine whether

Here, two different cities are referred to, or both names Ai and Bethel are combined into a single city. In any case, from

In the fifteenth century BC, when this city was destroyed, nothing remained in its place except ruins. Professor

Garstand, who excavated at this site, reports thousands of pottery sherds found there.

Nothing dates from after the fifteenth century BC. The available evidence leaves no doubt that the destruction of the city was the result of

There was a fire. The archaeologist says that when a person stands in an ancient place, it is clearly a hiding place.

It identifies Joshua's army and the way they took the city, which is described in chapter 8 of the Book of Joshua.

The Book of Joshua then tells the story of the destruction of five of the kings of Canaan in the Valley of Elon, near the city of Ai.

Jazer (the Bible narrates that this fortress eventually fell to Solomon) and after taking possession of the fortress of "Libnah"

It is transferred to Joshua at the end of the "Eleh" valley. The brief excavations that took place in "Libnah" date the fall of

It dates back to the 13th century BC. After that, Joshua opened the fortified fortress of "Lachish". In place of this fortress

Extensive excavations have been carried out, and as a result, a series of ancient cities have been discovered, the date of their foundation being the beginning of the 10th century.

The site has been discovered. Among the artifacts found here are the remains of a large temple filled with

The bones of sheep and oxen are the other four limbs, and apparently these animals were sacrificed in this temple.

These bones are the right front leg bones of animals. It is noteworthy that there is a similarity between these bones and

The ritual recorded in the book of Leviticus (chapter 7, verses 32 and 33) is striking. The content of the verses in question is as follows:


1
                                         Garstand

"You shall give the right thigh to the priest as a wave offering from your peace offerings. He among the sons of Aaron who brings the blood of the

"Pass the sacrifice of health and the leg, the right thigh will be his portion." Another interesting work here

The find is a talisman from Amenhotep III, the Egyptian pharaoh, which describes the killing of one hundred and two heads.

The lion he obtained in the first ten years of his reign is the most important artifact he obtained in terms of determining the date of the destruction of this fort.

The broken bowl on which an Egyptian tax collector described the wheat shipment to Egypt in the fourth year.

The reign of the pharaoh is described in Egyptian. The way it is expressed indicates that it must belong to the time of "Merneptah".

If so, the fourth year of his reign would be 1225 BC, and since this cup was found among the ashes of

The burnt city found seems to determine the correct date of the city's destruction. On the other hand, in

One of the ancient inscriptions from Omrna, written in 1400 BC by Abd al-Hippopotamus, king of Jerusalem, is said to

that "Lachish" was plundered by the Hebrews. In this regard, the question arises again as to which of these

Two dates, two hundred years apart, determine the date of the destruction of this fort by Joshua. Here the fort

There is no doubt that Nimbardeh was destroyed in 1225, but the question is whether the destruction was carried out by Joshua.

Or by someone else like "Marneptah" himself, who we saw boasting that "the people of Israel have become troubled and

"Palestine has become a widow." It should also be noted that the oldest reference to "Elon" is in the same

The Tall-e-Umra inscriptions, in which Abd-e-Hepa writes, "The Heberite tribe is advancing towards Elon," and one of them

His caravans have been plundered and pillaged nearby.

Joshua reports that after "Lachish", he also captured "Hebron" and "Debir".

In "Debir", which was later called "Qarya Safar", extensive excavations have revealed the remains of a

The Israeli city, a beautiful ruin dating back to the time of "Amenhotep III" or around the Middle Ages, or around 1200 BC.

The soil has come out. The presence of an Israelite city on top of the ash layer once again indicates that its destruction

It was created by the Israelis.

1
                                         Amenhotep
2
                                         Kirjath Sepher

The living:

Another discovery by archaeologists that proves the historical accuracy of the Bible's contents

The most important thing is to know the Hittite people and the empires they founded. This is mentioned repeatedly in the Bible.

The tribe was mentioned, but since world history had completely forgotten them, their existence seemed doubtful.

In Genesis (chapter 23, verse 10) we read that Abraham bought a field from “Ephron” the Hittite. Again in the book of Genesis

In Genesis (chapter 26-34) we read that Esau married a Hittite woman, and this act grieved his mother.

In the Book of Exodus, the name of the Hittites is mentioned several times among the names of the nations whose lands the Hebrews sought to conquer.

In the book of Joshua (1:11-9) we read that the Hittites, in contrast to the other nations that were in the region,

Joshua's transgressions were resisted, they formed an alliance, and the waters of the Amazonites shattered the ranks of their armies. In the book

Judges We come across stories passed down from the Hebrews to the Hittites. In the Book of 1 Samuel (chapter 26)

We see the Hittites enlisting in David's army, and elsewhere we read how Solomon the Hittite

He enslaved the peoples of his dominion and took their daughters as wives. But before that, archeology

Before the new era, all that was left of this tribe was their name, and no one knew them.

The first documents that re-established the Hittites among the ancient historical peoples of the world are the revelations.

which were found in Egypt and Assyria. Egyptian painters created images of them that show them as resembling Armenians.

Give, and therefore it is almost certain that these people are the ancestors of the Armenians. One of the famous Egyptian inscriptions

It is a description of the terrible battle that took place in 1287 BC at "Qarash" between the armies of Ramesses II and the Hittites.

On the first day of the battle, Ramesses was defeated and fell into the hands of the enemy, but on the arrival of fresh forces on the following day,

Second, the tide of battle changed, Ramses was freed from captivity and the enemy was completely defeated. The casualties in this

The war against the Hittites was so severe that their survivors rebelled against their leaders, killed them, and returned home.

They returned.

Thus, the discovery of artifacts and documents that shed light on the history of the Hittites was achieved by archaeologists, 1

Wright, 2 missionaries residing in Damascus, were entrusted.

These documents were all found in Asia Minor and Türkiye. Says' discoveries are described in his book called

"Henian, the Story of a Forgotten Empire" 3 has been described. In 1906, another archaeologist

The name of Professor Winkler,4 who was born in a place called "Baghar-Kyo" on the banks of the Qizil-Abramalek River,5 located nine miles east of

Ankara was being excavated, and the remains of the former capital and a treasure trove of inscriptions were discovered.

These inscriptions, which are in the Babylonian and Hittite languages, were written on adobe. After

The discovery of the aforementioned traces of familiarity with the language of this people took a long time, but in the end, scientific research in this field

He concluded. One of the noteworthy artifacts found in "Kar Kamish" is the Hayati inscription, whose sentences are in the direction of

They are written opposite each other, meaning that after completing a sentence that is written from right to left, for example, another sentence is written.

It started from left to right. If our books were written in the same order today, how much more time would it take to read them?

Writing and reading them would be economical, as the eyes would not have to strain after reading a sentence from the beginning.

The line is turned back, and another sentence is read. One wonders why such a useful invention

Consigned to oblivion. In 1911, two archaeologists named Woolley and Lawrence, the latter later renamed Lawrence

Arabia became known, excavations began in "Kar Kamish" and they found documents that referred to the empire.

They tell the story of a vast region that encompassed all of Asia Minor on the banks of the Euphrates River.

As a result of these discoveries, it became known that the Hittite Empire expanded dramatically again during its lifetime.

One is from around 1700 BC, which coincides with the early reign of the Great Babylonian dynasty, and the other is from the years

1200-1400 BC. And they are also mentioned in the inscriptions of the ancient city of Amrana. The first international agreement that

1
                                       Sayce
2
                                       Wright
3
                                       The Hittites Story of a Forgotten Empire
4
                                       Prof. Winckler
5
                                       Halys

What is known so far is the treaty concluded between Ramesses II, the Egyptian pharaoh, and Hattusilis II, the Hittite king.

According to this treaty, the basis of which was strengthened by the marriage of Ramesses II with the daughter of Hatshepsut, the two kings pledged

They lived in peace and harmony with each other. In the time of David, a treaty was made between him and "Toi", the king of Hamath,

We find out, and in 717 BC we see that this empire was completely destroyed by Sargon II, the king of Assyria.

It will be.


Judges' period:

From the time of the judges, when the nation of Israel was weak and scattered, there should naturally be no notable historical works.

There is a lot left. But the amount that remains is consistent with what is said in the Book of Judges about the life of Israel in this era.

The Palestinian supremacy and the Israeli impotence are evident everywhere. This period is comparable to the end of the Islamic Era.

And it is the beginning of the Iron Age. From about 4000 to about 1200 BC, human tools and weapons were usually made of copper.

It was made, and towards the end of this period, tin was also used to obtain blanks. Before 1200 BC.

Iron, like silver and gold, was a rare and precious metal in our time. The Hittites were apparently the first people to

The method of smelting iron was familiar, and its secrets were kept hidden from others with greed and narrow-mindedness, because iron weapons

It had given them an advantage over their enemies. According to the evidence and documents found by archaeologists, the Palestinians had been

They were familiar with making iron weapons and jewelry, but they kept the secrets hidden from the Jews. In the Book of Joshua

(Chapter 17, verse 16) The Israelites express concern and dismay over the presence of iron chariots in the hands of their enemies, in

The Book of Judges (Chapter 1, Verse 19) states that the Jews were the only ones capable of conquering the mountains and that the existence of chariots

Iron prevents them from taking over the plains, and again in the Book of Judges (chapter 4, verse 3), which mentions the existence of a hundred chariots.

Iron is in the hand of Sisera, this is alluded to. In front of the houses of the Philistines, where skill and craftsmanship

It was used in their architecture, and their iron furniture and fittings, the humble and ruined houses of the Jews, which lacked all these advantages.

It is interesting to note that there is no ironwork in the First Book of Samuel, because the Philistines said, "Lest

The Israelites were to make swords or spears for themselves. And verse 22 says that only Samuel and Jonathan had swords and spears.

Religious people have noticed that there is again agreement between the contents of the Bible and the discoveries of archaeologists.

There is complete coordination.

Chapter Eight


The era of the kings

As we read in the Book of 1 Samuel, the first person to rule over Israel was Saul.

He was a great warrior, and his first victory was at a place called "Mukhmas" (1 Samuel 14). With this victory,

He drove the Palestinians back and recruited many soldiers to achieve his goal of liberating Israel.

His command center was located in "Jaba'ah". Excavations and researches have been carried out at this place, and as a result, the fortress's statistics

A fortress dating back to the reign of Saul has been found. This fortress was built in a simple and primitive manner, but very

His reign was solidified by the victory of the Palestinians at Jalboo, which led to his suicide in the

His son Jonathan was beheaded. In the Book of Chronicles (chapter 10, verse 10), we read that the Philistines cut off his head.

They sent "Dajon" to "Beitshan". They carried his weapon among them as a sign of victory and then went to the temple.

They hanged her in the city of "Ashtarut" in Beitshan and nailed her body to the wall of the temple. As a result, excavations

Which has been implemented in "Beitshan" is one of the most complete series of ancient cities ever discovered in one area.

The soil has come out. In a pile of soil seventy-nine feet high, piled on top of each other, there are more than eighteen layers.

Architectural remains have been discovered that date back from 400 BC to the Middle Ages. Among the remains that the monument

It is the period of David. The ruins of two temples have been found, which are certainly the same as the temples of "Dajon" and "Ashtarut", which

We read about them in the Bible. Also, it is known that this city existed in the time of David, and probably was acquired by him for

To take revenge on the savages who treated Saul's body as they did, it was destroyed by fire. After Saul's death and

Jonathan, David sat on the throne of Israel.

Until the time of King David, the city of Jerusalem was in the hands of the "Jebusites". For centuries, this city was one of the most important cities in

The scholar was numbered. As we have seen, King Abd al-Hayba, who wrote part of the inscriptions of Tal-e-Umar, was in this

The city, which was once the capital, is inhabited. The city was called "O-ro-Salem" during the time of this king.

And the king's own name, which means slave of Heba, proves that he was a Hittite, because "Heba" is included in the

The gods were Hittites. This is also one of the characteristics of the capital of Palestine in 1400 BC that we observe.

The king in which he resided wrote a letter to the king of Egypt in Babylonian cuneiform. When David became king, in

The Hundred decided to move its capital as far north as possible, in order to gain access to the tribes living in the north and who were reluctant to

The kingship was placed around his neck, to come closer. In this respect, Jerusalem was both close to the north and to the south.

Its natural strength attracted his attention. This city was so strong that it is mentioned in the Book of 2 Samuel (chap.

In verses 5-6 we read that the “Jebusites” boast that even the deaf and the lame can easily defend themselves.

David used the city's aqueducts to break into this fortified city and conquer it, and promised to command the army.

Delegate yourself to someone who will take you to the city this way. Before archaeologists can investigate this matter,

It is not known what David intended by this water route. However, Sir Charles Varon, an archaeologist, when he

Jerusalem was busy with excavations, and he discovered that the city's early inhabitants had dug a canal about five hundred feet long.

They were passing through a rock, ending in a valley, and by a spring in the Kidron Valley, which is today called the spring of

It was called the Virgin. Above the cave they had dug a hole about forty feet deep, and next to it was a

It was decided that women would stand there to draw water. From this platform, a sloping path was created inside the castle.

It was discovered that David's soldiers had entered the city of Jerusalem by crossing the canals and were harassing the city's inhabitants.

They have caused slander and astonishment.

With Jerusalem, the capital and stronghold of David, in his hands, he was able to quickly conquer the country.

Since there is no evidence of King David's reckless actions, archaeology is shrouded in mystery.

The rapid expansion of the small state of Israel, without external interference, has drawn the curtain. Until the days of Ramesses II

The Egyptian government was the dominant power in Palestine, and this country could not be allowed to develop without independence, but


1
                                        Sir Charles Warren

The successors of Ramesses II did not have his power and were considered helpless tools in the hands of the Egyptian priests. This corruption and

The Egyptian government's incompetence continued to the point of becoming incompetent. With the fall of the Twentieth Dynasty and the beginning of the

The arrival of the twenty-first dynasty of priests made Egypt the absolute rulers of the land, and the intervention and expansion of the Egyptians abroad

It ended. In this regard, when David was about to expand his kingdom, he received support from the Egyptian government.

There was no concern for him. Also, according to the documents and evidence available from Babylon and Assyria, which were also in the

The eastern borders of Palestine were at that time experiencing a period of peace and tranquility and had ceased to pressure their neighbors.

They had drawn their own food. Therefore, when David became involved in numerous wars and local conflicts, he was not forced to use force.

Egypt, Babylon, or Assyria. The Hittites were also relatively weak and helpless at this time, and the same thing happened to David.

It allowed him to freely expand his empire in the northern regions of the Euphrates Valley. Gradually, "Edom", "Ammon" and "Amalek"

The kingdom of David was consolidated, and the extent of his rule reached a level unparalleled in the entire history of the Israelites.

The northernmost point that David conquered was "Suba", which until then had been a constant source of trouble and opposition to Assyrian territory.

Therefore, with this conquest, David also liberated Assyria from its fierce enemy.

After David, his son Solomon succeeded him. This king, according to the Bible, built many

He created and for this reason left behind many monuments of himself. Some of the remains of the buildings he created during his time

(Discovered in "Megiddo", "Garz" and "Ejlon"). Refer to the Book of 1 Kings, Chapter 9, Verses 15-19.

(The excavations that have taken place in "Megiddo" are the most extensive excavations ever carried out in Palestine.)

The work is noteworthy. These excavations began in 1925 by the University of Chicago and lasted for ten years.

During this period, four entire cities, dating back to the tenth to fourth centuries BC, were excavated from the ground.

The ruined city that was located on the mound is one of the Babylonian and Iranian cities, and one of the three other cities that were in

Under it were buried the first belonging to the Assyrians and the third and fourth belonging to the Israelites. Among the ruins of the city

The fourth, which is a monument to the era of Suleiman, contains traces of the vast royal stables as well as the palace that served as the seat of the

It can be seen that Solomon was the king of Egypt. Since each of Solomon's twelve officials was responsible for one month of the royal palace's provisions,

To ensure the year, it is necessary that these officials had extensive warehouses; and for this reason, the palace of Baana

It also had spacious rooms. During subsequent excavations at this site, an underground treasure was discovered.

Dating from the time of Ramesses III, or 1200 BC, it contains two hundred beautifully carved pieces of ivory.

Solomon's great interest in the Bible is found in the First Book of Kings (1 Kings 16:10-29) and the Second Book of Chronicles:1

14- (17) has been reflected. The stables seen in the picture have parts that are not shown according to the usual plan.

It was built at that time. Stone pillars with holes in their corners also separated the horses from each other and

It was also used to tie up horses. The stables have stone stalls and their floors are also made of stone.

The floor is covered with a matting to prevent the horses from slipping.

The Temple of Jerusalem, his most important architectural work, was completely destroyed in the following years, and as in

No trace of other buildings has remained in place. The temple built during the time of Solomon is the

It was not huge, and its length and width did not exceed a hundred and thirty feet. But it was unequaled in beauty, and its stone walls

It was decorated with cedar wood and overlaid with gold. In this building were two large rooms, one holy and the other holy.

It was called the Holy of Holies, and in it two cherubim spread their wings fifteen feet long over the ark of the Torah.

Outside the temple is a large pool, about 15 feet in diameter and seven and a half feet high, which is bowl-shaped from the front.

This bronze bowl was made, as we read, by workmen commissioned by Hiram, King

Tyre, which was sent to be molded on the banks of the Jordan. This pool and two huge bronze pillars, according to the book

First, the kings (Chapter Seven) were located in front of the temple.

The Bible also mentions the construction of warships by Solomon with the cooperation of King Hiram.

He speaks at Essien Jaber on the shores of the Red Sea. The excavations carried out at Essien Jaber have revealed the actions of Solomon.

It has been clarified in this regard. And here is the copper and iron smelting furnace that belongs to the time of Solomon, similar to that in

A grandeur never seen before in the Near East has been found. Beside this furnace are vast, enclosed camps.

There was a place for the workers, who seemed to be slaves. The furnace was built in such a way that

Make the most of the winds blowing from the cart, and also some of the principles of building metal melting furnaces.

Today, it is observed in its construction. In the book of Deuteronomy (chapter 8-9), the Israelites are given the Promised Land.

Its mountains are rich in metal mines, but in other parts of the Bible, written later, this

The subject has not been mentioned. Therefore, it is worth noting that the mountains of Edom and Arba have abundant minerals and the ruins

Many of them, which were exploited in ancient times, still remain. These ruins tell the story of this

The area, which is now a deserted desert, in Solomon's day had hundreds of cities, villages, and densely populated areas.

The metals extracted from these mines were refined there once and then sent to Essyon for complete refining.

Jaber was sent.

It is worth noting that the creation of all these cities, fortresses, and mining of Sulayman's mines was done in such a way that

The capture of the city of Galilee was so severe that he was forced to abandon it, as recorded in the Book of 1 Kings (chapter 9).

(Verse 10) We read, in return for the work that King Hiram had done. On the other hand, this king

To advance his extensive urban plans, he was forced to treat his subjects with violence and impose heavy taxes.

It was not until after his death that the people asked his son Rehoboam to reduce the burden of taxes.

The story of "Rehoboam" consulting with older advisors and then with younger advisors, accepting the opinion of the latter, and finally rejecting it.

The request for tax relief is mentioned in a humorous way in the First Book of Kings (Chapter 12, verses 1-20). As a result,

This mistake led ten of the twelve tribes that were obedient and subject to him to raise the flag of independence and claim for themselves

They chose kings from among themselves and never again fought with the tribes of Judah and Benjamin, who were loyal to "Rehoboam."

They remained ununited. During this time, there was a long period of no foreign interference, with the beginning of the reign of a new dynasty and the intervention of

A river in Egypt, founded by Shishak, the first head of the twelfth dynasty of Egyptian kings, ended

In the book of 1 Kings (chapter 14, verses 25 and 26) we read that these kings came to Jerusalem, the treasures of


1
                                         Shishak

The wealth that Solomon had gathered there was taken with him to Egypt. Shishak (Shoshunak) has an inscription in Karnak.

It is an inscription in which he describes his conquests over the Israelites. The image of the goddess "Amun" is seen in this inscription.

who is leading a group of Semitic slaves, who are undoubtedly Hebrews, with ropes. The number of these slaves, each

The representative of the Hebrew city or village, which Shoshana claims to have conquered, is no less than one hundred and fifty-six. Some

Among the names written in this inscription are the names of cities that are also mentioned in the Holy Book of the Dead, and it is worth noting that

It is worth noting that one of the points mentioned as a captured area is the Ibrahim Farm.

For non-religious people, the Bible also testifies to Shoshana's invasion of Palestine and his conquests in this land.

                                                                              Chapter 9


Northern Government

In the realm of the Northern Kingdom, the first ruler who left an everlasting mark on history was "Omari."

", was an army officer, whose story of his accession to the throne is told in the First Book of Kings (chapter 16, verses 15 and 24).

Although his reign did not last more than twelve years, a hundred years later the Assyrians still called the kings of Israel "the dynasty."

He built a capital for himself in Samarra and left behind traces of his reign that can be seen from the

The archaeological view is very valuable and worthy of attention.

Samaria means "mountain of the high ones," and this city, built on a mountaintop in the middle of the land of Israel,

Badst "Omari" became a very fortified capital and was built with military fortresses to protect the city.

The invaders became invincible. Archaeological excavations in the old part of this city were started by "Riz Nar"1 and

Then, in 1908-1910, other people were sent there by Harvard University to continue this work.

Later, in 1931-3 and 1935, these excavations were expanded. As a result of the aforementioned excavations, six

A layer of historical artifacts was brought out of the ground, which belongs to the time of "Omari" to the eighth century. "Omari" and

Later, his son Ahab leveled the mountain at a height of 330 feet above the plain and built walls on it using geometric principles.

They built stone walls. First in the middle of the plain and later on the steep slopes of the mountains, and as a result

The city became impregnable to any attack, except for famine. In the Second Book of Kings (chapter 6, verses 24-31)

We read that Samaria was seized by such famine that cannibalism took hold of it, and thus the city was stabilized; and in the chapter

Verses 5 and 6 of the same book note that before this city fell to the Assyrians, it was three years in

Their siege was sustained. Among the remains that remain here is a huge water reservoir made of stone.


1
                                        Reisner

The oldest Jewish palace was built on the western end of the mountain in a simple form and overlooked the Mediterranean Sea.

The palaces that were built here later lacked that simplicity in terms of architecture. At the end of the palace's outer space was a rectangular tower.

The solid shape and the basin are made of cement, and apparently it is the same basin in which Ahab's blood-stained chariot was

As mentioned in the first book of Kings (chapter 22, verse 38), he was washed.

The next verse tells of the palace that Ahab built. Here too, the tablets of ivory found by archaeologists

The evidence confirms this biblical account. Apparently, these ivory pieces were attached to the interior fittings of the palace and its walls.

Various shapes such as images of lotus, lily, papyrus, palm, lion, bull, deer, winged figures, gods

The Egyptian Abul-Hol and its like are depicted on ivories and represent the deep influence of Egyptian art.

One of the ivory medals found in the Omar Palace is one of the most interesting examples of these ivories.

It depicts Horus, the god of youth, seated on a lotus and holding a threshing instrument.

This is the same kind of ostentatiousness and sensuality that the eighth-century prophet Amos denounces when he

Speaking of the people of Samaria, he mentions them as a people who “lie down on beds of ashes” (Amos 4:6).

It predicts that “the houses of the Amaziah will be overthrown” (Amos 15:3). Also in Samaria, inscriptions

Pottery has been found that apparently belongs to the reign of "Jeroboam II", which took place at the beginning of the eighth century.

Kurd. These inscriptions include receipts for taxes that were collected from the people for the king. For example, on one of them

It is written: "In the second year of Ezer to Shumar, a winepress of old wine," and in another it is said: "In the tenth year of

"Azo to Gadius, a winepress of pressed oil." It is not inappropriate to quote Amos here in (chapter 6, verse 6) because

"You drink wine from bowls and anoint yourselves with the finest perfumes, but for the misfortune of Joseph

"You will not be sad." The letters that appear in these inscriptions are also worth noting. In some of them, names such as "Mari"

"Baal", which is a combination of the name "Baal", is seen. And some include the name "Yahweh", which indicates a contradiction.

It was a conflict that existed between two opposing faiths, and the prophets were influenced and opposed by it.

1
                                       Herus

One of the most interesting artifacts discovered from this time is the stone known as the "Moab" inscription.

The first person to discover the existence of this inscription was a German missionary named F.A. Klein (2). This stone was found in

A place called "Dibon" was located north of the Arnon River and east of the Dead Sea, and although part of it

It had sunk into the ground, the unnamed missionary was able to copy some of its words, and scientists and researchers

This stone is black with a blue tint, about two feet wide, about four feet high, and about a foot thick.

It is fourteen and a half inches long and has a semicircular top and bottom. Its contents are in Phoenician script in thirty-four lines.

After the discovery of this inscription, Klein was commissioned by the Bruce government to negotiate its purchase, and

The Arabs were ready to sell it to the unknown for forty dollars. At the same time, the French, who had heard the news of the discovery,

They had heard the inscription and sent a delegation there to cast and purchase it. This delegation arrived and took the stone to

It was bought for fifteen hundred dollars. The competition that had taken place to obtain the stone aroused the hounds and led to suspicions.

They believed that this stone had magical and magical properties. Therefore, they lit a fire, heated the stone, and poured water on it.

Broken, its pieces were scattered as a talisman. This stone was later restored by collecting more of its pieces and

The Louvre Museum was founded.

The Moabite Inscription completes the story told in the third chapter of the Book of Second Kings, and describes a rebellion.

It explains something that is not mentioned in the Bible, and instead refers to Ahab's victory, which is mentioned in the Bible.

It doesn't. But the names and cities and the general theme are the same as we read in the Bible. On the other hand, the language

This inscription is a chapter in the evolving Semitic language series. The Moabite inscription tells the story of "Omri" after

He conquered Moab, and his son Ahab began to pay a tribute of one hundred thousand bulls and one hundred thousand rams every year. Then

After Ahab's death, Mesha refused to pay taxes. King Jehoram took him to his fortress, Kir-haresh, and

There he sacrificed his son on the city wall to his god Chemosh. It is narrated that he

After a series of battles, he defeated Jehoram and drove Israel out of Moab. He says: "The head of all the inhabitants"


1
                                          F. A. Klein

I cut off the body of Ataroth (A), and it became the joy of Chemosh and Moab. The cities and fortresses were repaired and fortified.

Their early defeat is attributed to the wrath of the gods and their final victory to their help. Furthermore, the inscription

The name "Yahweh", for whom the Israelites built a temple in "Nebo", and also, to the many cities and settlements that

Their mention in the Old Testament indicates that the inscription is the oldest of all inscriptions written in the language.

Its relationship with the Hebrew language that has been discovered so far is more interesting. Its language and terminology are almost the same as in

We read the Old Testament. This inscription testifies to the progress that Moab had made in civilization in the 9th century BC.

It suggests (mistakenly, of course) that as a result of these successes, "Israel has disappeared forever."

It was during the reign of Ahab, the son of Omri, that Israel first came into conflict with the Assyrian power that was in the east.

It was growing, it turned out. Ahab's strange and unexpected kindness towards Syria, which was described in chapter twenty of the first book

The kings mentioned above were probably unable to understand the danger that threatened Israel from Assyria.

We read in this chapter that Omri ibn Haddad defeated the king of Damascus, but not in a manner that was customary at the time.

He destroyed his capital, not killed him himself. Instead, he made a treaty with the king of Damascus, according to which

Cities that had previously belonged to Israel were returned, and several streets in the city of Damascus also belonged to the king of Israel.

Why would he have done that? It was almost certainly because "Omari" was conscious.

The politician himself understood that Syria was the last bulwark between Assyria and Israel, and if it fell, the country would

Israel will be defenseless against the Assyrian attacks, and thus the destruction of Syria will be a decisive blow to Israel.

It is suicide. Therefore, as Assyrian documents and inscriptions testify, "Omri" led his troops into battle with the enemy.

He united to create a barrier against Assyrian attacks.

Shalmaneser III, who reigned from 859 to 825 BC, left a description of this alliance.

While describing the first stage of the twenty-one campaigns and conquests, he himself crossed the Euphrates and

The conquest of Aleppo is mentioned. He mentions the coalition that had been formed against him with the participation of twelve kings.

And he speaks of the forces that each of them brought to the battlefield. From his words it is clear that the strongest of these

The kings were "Ben Hadad" the king of Damascus, and Ahab the Israeli. According to his narration, Ben Hadad's army consisted of 1,200 chariots, 1,200 horsemen,

and 20,000 infantry, and Ahab's forces consisted of 2,000 chariots and 10,000 soldiers. Shalmaneser also narrated

"With the high power that the Lord Assyria has entrusted to me and with the powerful weapons that "Nerkal", which

I was running ahead, they gave me, or I fought them, from "Calcar" to "Gilzo" I conquered and subdued them, and fourteen

I threw a thousand of their warriors to the ground with their weapons. And like "Idad", the god of the air, a flood (of the armies) fell upon

"I made their heads flow. I scattered their armies and made their blood flow with weapons." Another inscription claims

He claims that he killed 20,500 people in this battle, and in another inscription he mentions this number as 25,000.

However, this campaign does not seem to have been anything more than a casual clash, for immediately afterwards the Assyrian king returned to Nineveh.

It is not until five years later that the area where this battle took place is visited.

A later inscription detailing the story of his 16th campaign is a source of great interest to researchers.

The Holy Book is worthy of attention. He writes in this inscription: "In the eighteenth year of his reign for

I crossed the Euphrates the sixteenth time. Hazael of Damascus in 1 Kings 15:19, 17 and 2 Kings 17:19.

8 He is mentioned. He trusted the majority of his soldiers and had taken command of them with complete power.

He had made "Senar" (Hermon), a mountain opposite Lebanon, a stronghold for himself. With him in

I fell and defeated him. I killed 16,000 of his soldiers and captured his camp with 1,121 chariots and 480 horses.

I took the spoils on horseback. He fled for his life. I pursued him. In Damascus, his royal city, I found him.

I captured him. I destroyed his gardens. I drove him as far as the mountains of Hur. I destroyed countless cities and plundered them.

I set them on fire. I took a great deal of plunder from them. At that time I took a bribe from the people of Tyre and Sidon and from Jehu, the son of Omri.

Shalmaneser not only described the story of this battle, but also included it in the inscription known as the "Black Pyramid Column", which

In "The Goods" Layard obtained, images of the vanquished paying tribute to the Bedouin, including Jehu, the son of Omri, survived.

In these images, Shalmaneser is accompanied by two people who bow to him. In front of him is Jehu, or his representative,

It can be seen that he has bowed to the ground to pay respect. Four Hebrew officials are standing behind the king's head.

They have, and after them, thirteen Hebrew bearers are also observed carrying gifts. Explanation of these images

The inscription reads: "The offering of Jehu, son of Omri, was a golden bowl, gold, gold bowls, gold cups,

"The lead sword, the royal scepter for the king's hand, and the balsam wood that I took from him." This is the oldest image that

It has already been obtained from the Hebrews in Assyria.

Shortly after this, Assyria destroyed Syria, a dangerous and stubborn enemy of Israel,

He rendered valuable service to the kingdom. In the book of 2 Kings (32:10, 33), and in the book of 2 Kings (3:13)

- (7) Description of the conquests of two Syrian kings, Hazael and Ben-Hadad, in Israel, and the fall of cities and settlements

We read a lot from them. After that, "Ed-Nirari III", the king of Assyria, appeared, who ruled from 812 to 782.

He established a kingdom and conquered Syria and destroyed the city of Damascus. He himself describes the story of his victory over Syria in this way:

"I drove him to the land of Damascus. I imprisoned Mari, the king of Damascus, in his royal city. The awe of Assyria, the god of

I, he overcame him. He fell at my feet and became my servant. I gave him 2300 talents of silver, 20 talents of gold, 3000 talents of gold.

"He took 5,000 pounds of copper, iron, colorful clothes, and countless objects and properties."

After his reign, three incompetent kings ruled Assyria. During their time, Assyria's pressure on

Israel was gone, and the country finally had a chance to sort itself out. By comparison, Israel and

Judah achieved successes and expanded its territory and dominion. Jeroboam III of Israel and the third

The king of the house of Jehu extended the borders of his country from Hamath to the Euphrates and east of the Dead Sea. At that time,

Judah, under the rule of Azariah, a powerful king, reached the peak of its prosperity and not only annexed Palestine to its territory

Not only did it regulate construction, but it also achieved brilliant advances in the fields of agriculture and architecture.

After these powerless kings, Pul, king of Assyria, who called himself "Tiglath-piles," was crowned and

He seized the throne of Israel and began a series of wars of aggression. It is said that the attack on the State of Israel was

Two sides worked. In the book of 2 Kings (19:15, 20), we read that Menahem received a bribe from the government in exchange for his support.

He pays him a thousand talents of gold. Paul himself narrates that he received from Rezon of Damascus, Menahem of Samaria, Hiram of Tyre, and

Others: Gold, silk, linen, lead, iron, hides, elephants, ivory, colorful garments, purple, fat sheep whose skins are

The color was mixed with red, the winged birds of the sky whose wings were purple, horses, camels, sheep, male and female camels with

"Their balls have been received as tribute." Apart from other gifts that Menahem may have given,

The value of the silver alone that he gave to the king of Assyria was about one and a half million dollars in today's money. In the second book

In Kings (30:15), we read that Hoshea conspired against Pekah, king of Israel, and had him killed.

He said: "Because they removed their king, Faqh, I appointed Hushah to be their king." This was the bridge of the king that

He made the migration of people from one place to another a common practice, and future kings continued it. Book 2 of Kings (15)

(29) Describes the story of the transfer of captives from Galilee and Naphtali by this king to his own city in Assyria.

In the book of 2 Kings (7:16-10), we read that Ahaz, king of Judah, sent a representative to

Tiglath-pileser "sent and asked him to come to his aid in the war with Syria, and we note that he did this

Accepting the request, he captured the city of Demesh, killed its king, Rezin, and took its inhabitants captive.

He achieved a conquest that the kings before him had struggled to achieve for a hundred years. And he fulfilled Isaiah's prophecy that

In the book of Isaiah (16:7) it says that Damascus will be quickly destroyed without a king, and it will come true. In the inscriptions from

"Tiglath-pileser" is also mentioned among the names of those who had taken over his reign, along with the name Ahaz.

Let's do it.

According to the Second Book of Kings (3:17-6), Shalmaneser succeeded Tiglath-pileser as king.

And it was this king who besieged the city of Nazareth. But, apparently, before he succeeded in taking Samaria, he died.

arrived, and Sargon II took his place, for we note in the surviving inscriptions that he attributed the conquest of Samarra to

He himself attributes it and says: "In the beginning of my reign, in the first year, I besieged Samaria and took 27,290 people captive."

I chose fifty chariots, but I allowed the rest (the people) to keep their property. I made my ruler

I appointed over them and imposed on them the tribute of the former king. 2 Kings 24:18-41 This narration

He fully confirms this and adds that he moved people from his country to Samaria to settle there and to

The Samaritans are mixed in. It is noteworthy that most of the ten tribes of Israel never left their homeland and

Only a few of them migrated. In this regard, research into the fate of the "Lost Ten Tribes" is practically futile and based on

The idea is incorrect. The truth is that they did not disappear, but rather through contact with the surrounding nations.

The Israelites lived together. But it should be kept in mind that this conquest by Sargon ended the history of Israel. From that

So Israel no longer stood tall as an independent nation. The Samaritans were considered a hated tribe in Jesus' time, and today they are.

Only a few hundred people remain of this arrogant and self-willed tribe.

Chapter Ten


The end of the reign of Judah

After Sargon, Sennacherib, who was a powerful king, succeeded him. He described his battle with

Judah, who is also mentioned in another way by the Jews in the Book of 2 Kings (13:18-36:19), has left behind

He describes this battle as follows: "I came near Ekron. I killed the rulers and princes who had sinned.

I killed them and cut their bodies into pieces. I set free the rest who had not committed crimes or treason.

I made it. I imprisoned those who had committed crimes, and set free the rest who had not committed any sins or wrongdoings.

I did. Hezekiah king of Judah did not put the yoke on my neck. Of his fortresses and places I took forty-six fortresses and fortified places with their settlements.

The countless small ones that surround them are attacked by the onslaught of piercing arrows and the devices of the fortress and the infantry attacks of the system and

I surrounded and captured 200,150 people, small and large, females and males, horses, mules, donkeys, camels, and cattle with spears and axes.

I brought out from among them great flocks, countless little flocks, and counted them as spoils of war. He (Hezekiah) said to me,

I have imprisoned a bird in the middle of Jerusalem like a caged bird. I have also blocked it with mounds of mud and

We turned back everyone who wanted to go out of the city gates. I separated the cities I had taken from his territory and

I gave them to Mitenti, king of Ashdod, Padi, king of Ekron, and Silibaal, king of Gaza. I made his kingdom and his rule narrower.

But as for Hezekiah himself, the awe and majesty of my kingdom overcame him, and his rabbis and his best soldiers, whom he

He had brought them to strengthen his royal city of Jerusalem, but they fled. I forced him to give me thirty talents of gold,

He brought eight hundred talents of silver, precious stones, a considerable amount of jewels, his own daughters, court ladies, and female musicians from Bim to the city.

"My kingdom sent to Nineveh. He sent an embassy (to me) to pay tribute and pay the duties of servitude." In the second book

Kings (13:18-16) I also want Hezekiah to pay tribute to Sennacherib, and the amount is three hundred talents of gold and

Six hundred quintals of silver have matured.

Thus, in the Book of 2 Kings (35:19), it is narrated that the angel of the Lord came to the camp at night.

The Assyrians passed by and killed 185,000 of their men, and the king of Assyria was forced to flee to his own country.

The Assyrian commentary on this battle does not mention this issue at all. The reason for this is clear.

The ancient rulers, like today's despotic sultans, would flaunt their conquests to the people and avoid defeat and

Their failures do not speak for themselves. Therefore, we do not expect Sankhrib to be destined for this fate and its hasty escape

He may have hinted at this. His admission that he had failed to conquer Jerusalem and that Hezekiah was imprisoned "like a bird in a cage"

The fact that he has made it is an admission of the defeat he has suffered in this battle. This point should not be overlooked here either.

It is said that Sennacherib, although he continued to issue his decree of renunciation for twenty years after this incident, no longer dared to object.

Judas was found. The fear and terror that had gripped him did not let go of his captors until the end of his life. Herodotus in

History records that a massive army of Assyrian soldiers attacked Egypt, and the Egyptians responded with all their might.

They rose up and forced them to return. Herodotus adds that the Assyrians were caught by rats that gnawed at their strings.

Their bows and leather armor ate them, and the Assyrians, having lost their weapons, were forced to flee.

They turned back. This narrative may have some basis and reflect the fate of the Assyrians in this battle.

Make.

The siege of "Lachish" also took place shortly after this event, and Layard's stone carvings depict it in

Discovered in Nineveh in 1850, it is an interesting and fascinating story. These images, carved on thirteen pieces of stone,

The siege and fall of this ancient fortress are depicted in the course of events. On the stones, this phrase attracts attention:

Sennacherib, the mighty king of the kingdom of Assyria, who sits on the throne opposite the city of Lachish. I have ordered a general massacre of that

"The image of the walls of the city of "Lachish" on top of a steep hill is visible in two parts. The towers and projections with

Small barred windows can be seen on them. Wooden bars and objects that resemble round shields are seen from

The towers have come out. Fortifications can be seen near the entrance, and at the foot of the hill there is something that looks like a gate for

The attack is aimed at the outskirts of the city or a water reservoir. The surrounding area is mountainous and covered with

It has become too visible. From the walls and towers, the defenders are throwing stones and arrows at the attackers.

At least ten mounds are visible, built by the invaders against the bastions that were created to protect the walls.

These hills are made of brick, stone, and tree trunks. Seven arrowheads are pointed at these passes towards

The walls are rolled up. Each of these battering rams rides on four wheels and has leather-covered bodies.

There are those who have been given a shield in front. Each of them has sheltered three men, one for the arrow.

To use the hammer or to pry stones from the wall with a crowbar, one to shoot the arrow from under the helmet, and

The third is for pouring water with a long-handled ladle onto the fire of fragments that the defenders were throwing towards this primary tank.

They poured out. In this outstanding role, everything happens at once, the siege, the attack, and the surrender all take place at the same time.

Take it.

The archers in the front row are kneeling, in the second row they are leaning forward, and in the back row they are standing, and

They have directed all the arrows towards the city's defenders. The shield-bearers are armed with war shields covered with animal skins.

They protect the artillerymen who are also positioned behind the tanks. The spearmen and those who

Their job is to throw stones. The ladders used to climb them are still in use.

They are thrown from the walls, and the besieged drive their chariots to block the enemy's advance.

They throw themselves at them. The narrative of the Bible and the inscriptions that remain from the destruction both speak of the fall of the city.

They testify.

While excavating the city of Lachish, archaeologists discovered a pit measuring 74, 84, and 85 feet wide, long, and deep.

They found it skillfully carved into the limestone, demonstrating the craftsmanship of ancient Jewish artisans.

This is where they, without the machines and explosives of today, and with tools made of flint, copper, and iron,

How could they have dug out five hundred thousand cubic feet of rock in that day with the soft tools they had? Apparently, this hole

It was created to store water, but this has not yet been proven.

Another amazing work of that day is Hezekiah's trumpet, which began at the spring of "Gihon."

This trumpet is mentioned in detail in the book of 2 Kings (20:20). This trumpet was described by Parker in 1909.

1911 Dredged with several other ancient watercourses. The average depth of the trench is six feet and its length is over eighteen hundred feet.

19 feet from the end of the ditch, a young boy who was crossing the ditch fell into it, leaving scratches on the wall.

The trumpet sounds attract his attention and he announces it to those standing outside. Archaeologists have

They have read the scratches, which are actually an inscription, and translated their content as follows: "Dig a tunnel and this was the way."

Tunneling. While the diggers were raising their picks one by one, and while there were still three

There was a cubit left to be dug, each of them (heard) the voice of one calling another, because there was a gap in the wall.

There was a south side. And on the day of digging the tunnel, the diggers' picks clashed with each other, and one struck the other, and water gushed out.

The spring flowed into the pool for twelve hundred cubits, and the height of the rock was one hundred cubits above the heads of the diggers.

This inscription was removed by an unauthorized person and is now in the Istanbul City Museum. When

The creation of the ditch, this spring was located outside the city walls. It was covered with rocks and the water came from the ditch.

He was going down to the city.

After the assassination of Sennacherib, which is mentioned both in the Second Book of Kings (37:19) and in the Bedan Inscription,

His son Esarhaddon became king. He expanded the country more than any other Assyrian king, conquering vast territories as far as Egypt.

He brought the region under his control. In the inscriptions he left behind, this king describes the kings of the Bactrian countries, who

Manasseh, the king of Judah, was one of them, taking wood and stones to build his palace in Nineveh.

His successor, Assyrian Banibaal, speaks of the suppression of the revolt that had taken place in Bactria and of Manasseh.

Because he remembers the king who ruled over him.




1
                                        Parker

In the book of 2 Chronicles (10:33-13), we read that Manasseh was taken captive to Babylon and then

The crown and throne were returned to him. There is no mention of this in the existing inscriptions, but a similar incident is mentioned.

Another is mentioned in one of the inscriptions, which says that "Neco", the Egyptian pharaoh, was taken captive to Babylon and spent several years in exile.

After he was allowed to regain his crown and throne, this Assyrian Banibal was the same king who spent the last years of his life.

He collected the inscriptions of his time and created a great library in Babylon which, as we have seen, was completed in 1749.

Discovered by archaeologist Layard.

After the Assyrian Banipal, Assyrian power declined rapidly. In 612 BC, Nineveh, the capital,

Assyria fell to the combined forces of Babylon and Mesopotamia, and eventually, shortly thereafter, the Assyrian armies, allied with the Egyptians,

They had become completely destroyed.

With this event, the destruction of the city of Nineveh, as prophesied in the book of Nehemiah, chapters two and three, took place exactly as it was.

It came true.


The splendor and majesty of Babylon:

Excavations in the ruins of ancient Babylon began relatively late, and it was in 1898 that Robert Chaldee,1

The German archaeologist began his research at this point. Unlike Layar and Buta, who did not know that his research was

Where will it be done? From the beginning, Chaldea had extensive knowledge of the history and architecture of ancient Babylon and was confident in the effects of time.

Nebuchadnezzar, whose story of deeds and achievements is reflected in Assyrian inscriptions, will be defeated.

It wasn't long before the excavations began when the massive walls of this ancient city emerged from beneath the ground.

It was brought out. For more than fifteen years, the unnamed archaeologist worked here with three hundred workers, and during this time thousands

The soil and remains of ancient buildings that had piled up on top of each other were removed, and holes were created in the ground that


1
                                         Robert Koldewey

Some of their depths reached seventy-seven feet. As a result of these excavations, it was discovered that an area of twelve square kilometers was

A square mile with two sets of walls, 22.4 feet thick on the outside and 25 feet thick on the inside, spaced 38.4 feet apart.

They had, it was enclosed. They had filled the space between these two walls, and on it they had created a platform on which four pairs of

Horses could easily pass over it, even on the side.

Watchtowers, built at regular intervals on these platforms, allowed the guards to

These towers were about one hundred and sixty feet apart, and from them

Three hundred and sixty towers were built on the inner wall and two hundred and fifty towers on the outer wall. The description itself

Nebuchadnezzar wrote about the construction of this great and fortified fortress, which has come down to us, and its content is as follows:

I built a great wall to enclose Babylon on the east. I dug its moats and made its slopes steep and

I built baked bricks. I built a high wall on the edge of the ditch, as high as a hill. In it were wide gates.

I made doors for it of free cedar wood, overlaid with copper. And because the enemy who had evil intentions

He is unable to threaten Babylon on either side. I have caused a great flood to flow around the city. Like the waves of the sea that

"Let the earth flow, I fortified the local fortress and made Babylon a fortress."

These excavations showed that Nebuchadnezzar, unlike his predecessors who used raw bricks,

The construction of most of the buildings used baked bricks. He repaired more than twenty temples. The amount of bricks used in the time

It was built and bears his seal, to the extent that the city of "Hila" was built with them, and a dam was built in the new building.

A large amount of those bricks were used in the Euphrates. Among the interesting artifacts that were found here are the Chaldean

He named the movable arches and stone structures that apparently belonged to the famous Hanging Gardens of Babylon. These gardens were

They were considered wonders of the ancient world.




1
                                         Hilleh

A three-hole underground tunnel has also been discovered, which is believed to have been a means of delivering water to the gardens.

This vast "artificial" garden was built on top of a high hill in the middle of the city.

The Book of Genesis (3:11, 4) refers to the great tower of Babel. As can be seen from the discovered artifacts,

The original tower was destroyed during the reign of Hammurabi and another tower was built in its place. Nabopolassar, one of the kings

Babylon described his steps towards building this tower in an inscription: "At that time Marduk (his god)

He commanded me to rebuild the Tower of Babel, which had fallen into disrepair and was left without repair. He commanded me to lay its foundation.

"In the bosom of the earth I have built, and its councils have reached to heaven." Then Nebuchadnezzar, his son, who continued his father's work,

He completed, leaving a comment on this topic: "I decided to go higher than the end of "A-Tam-Anki" 2, so that

"Equal to the sky." After its completion, this tower had seven terraces, reaching a height of 288 feet.

Its length and width were also 288 feet. Fifty-eight million bricks were used in its construction, and all the work on this building was done by

The great work was done by the prisoners. On top of the tower, a temple was built of blue tiles, with only one bed in it.

It was visible.

Herodotus writes: The Babylonians believed that Marduk entered this room at night and rested on his throne.

From this tower, a magnificent view of the surrounding plain was visible for miles. In the spacious room

Under the tower stood a colossal eighteen-foot-tall statue of Marduk made of gold. According to Herodotus, this statue was the equivalent of

Eight hundred quintals, or approximately 54 karvars, of gold, worth twenty-four million dollars in today's money, were made.

It was.

Another of the wonders of ancient Babylon was a large gate called the Gate of Ishtar, which opened onto a wide street that led to

The gate was built and it was opened. This magnificent street was seventy-three feet wide and straight, and on both sides it was

It was limited to walls twenty-two feet high, on which were carved the colorful image of one hundred and twenty lions. This


1
                                         Nabapolassar
2
                                         E-tamen-anki

The street had a dazzling splendor when the procession was taking place. Then, as in the book of Daniel (4-

(30) We read that Nebuchadnezzar was proud of having such a city, and we should not be surprised: “Is this Babylon the Great?”

"Have I not built it for the royal palace by the might of my power and the majesty of my majesty?" At that time he

He expresses his loyalty and devotion to the gods he worshipped: "For Marduk, the god of power,

He appointed me to rule this land, and gave me a noble name to guard the cities and repair the temples. I,

"A praying, wise, and supplicating worshipper of my God, I have fallen into the remembrance of this house."

Chapter Eleven


Ancient calligraphy and inscriptions

Archaeological research has led many scholars to believe that writing and calligraphy were first developed in

It was invented by the Sumerians in prehistoric times in southern Mesopotamia. It is not only the earliest example of writing in

The temple area of Uruk 1 has been discovered, but traces of calligraphy and writing have also been found in other ancient cities, each

One belongs to a specific period in the history of the evolution of writing. Apparently, writing began with the making of cylindrical seals, which the Sumerians

They were used to identify people, cities, and gods. It was known that from these

It can be used to represent the intention on clay tablets, and from there the pictorial line, then the line in which

Each symbol represented a syllable and eventually a line began to appear that had a specific letter or symbol for the sound.

The tools used for writing varied depending on the environment and climate in each region.

In Mesopotamia, which is a dry land with abundant clay soil, raw and baked clay tablets were used for

Writing was used. The great Assyrian library of Banipal, mentioned earlier, contained nearly sixty thousand volumes.

It was a piece of these tablets. In Iran, where stone is more abundant and the air is more humid, inscriptions are made on stone.

They wrote, and sometimes precious metals such as gold and silver were used for this purpose. However, here too, making

Clay tablets were common, as several thousand pieces have been found in the ruins of Persepolis.

In Egypt, where the papyrus plant grows abundantly in the marshy lands along the Nile River, humans have been using it since the beginning.

It has been found that the most durable writing material can be made from its stem. Papyrus grows in shallow water.

It grows and has a stem the diameter of a human arm and its height reaches fifteen feet. The papyrus stem is removed, with

They spread it into thin slices with a sharp needle and placed these slices next to each other. Then another row


1
                                          Uruk

They placed the same pieces on the row below, so that the seam of the pieces of the two rows formed a right angle to each other,

And then these two rows were glued together with gum and sometimes with water from the Nile River. The pieces that were made by the gods

They were glued together to create taller pieces. Then, their surfaces were smoothed and polished with sandpaper.

For commercial purposes, twenty pieces of papyrus, each two to fifteen inches wide, were usually glued together.

They did. Papyrus scrolls were usually thirty to thirty-five feet long. A rare and unusual scroll was 132 feet long and

It is 17 inches high and is inscribed with a description of events during the time of Ramses II, the Egyptian Pharaoh.

Usually, they wrote on one side of the papyrus, and the writing ran parallel to its seams. However, pieces of

Papyrus has been found with writing on both sides. For example, in Revelation (1:5), it is repeated

We read a papyrus scroll with writing on both sides. The pens of Egyptian scribes were not made of bamboo.

And it resembled the pens that were also popular in Iran until recently. Two types of pens were used in ancient Egypt, one

A compound obtained from a mixture of soot, resin, and water, and another compound obtained from a mixture of boiling tree sap,

The alum was green and watery. The scrolls used in the first century AD were called Babylonia, and the plural of that word is

The name of the Bible in European languages is derived from this word, although the word itself originally

It means the brain was the trunk of the tree.

In Palestine, pieces of wood were coated with a layer of resin, usually black in color, and

When writing on it, they scratched it with a pen. The tablet mentioned in the Gospel of Luke (1:36) is from this same body.

The tablets were made of wood. These inscriptions were very durable and were destroyed by the melting of the gum or the abrasion of the material on which they were written.

The writing would be erased. Schoolchildren in those days carried these tablets with them and usually wrote them down.

They tie it to their belts.




1
                                        Biblion
2
                                        Biblia

Typically, each student carried two of these tablets, whose raised edges prevented them from being

They would rub against each other and would not allow the material written on them to be lost. In this way, these tablets

They resembled the tablets used for writing in ancient America. Rectangular pieces of papyrus were placed on

They were folded and sewn together. The advantage of this type of inscription was that the reader could immediately jump to the middle or the end.

Refer to the inscription, if it was inevitable in a human scroll to find something in the middle or at the end of it, open it all.

The invention of this type of writing has been attributed to the early Christians, but its authenticity has not been fully investigated. But what about it?

Whether Christians invented it or not, the early Christians were the first to use it.

Poor Palestinian people usually use broken pieces of pottery they find in their land to write on.

Thousands of pieces of this pottery, which contain short and simple subjects, were used by school students in the following subjects:

They have practiced them or have received them as a receipt. Also, a number that includes one or two verses from the book.

The Holy Quran was found written on them, which is said to have the power of a talisman. As we have seen before,

Some of the most interesting inscriptions found at Lachish were written on such pottery fragments.

It is.

Papyrus was not very common in Palestine, because on the one hand it had to be imported from abroad, and

On the other hand, papyrus could not survive in the humid air of this country. In ancient times in Palestine, papyrus was made from bark.

Sheepskin and calfskin were used to record important and valuable documents. Probably the scroll that Jeremiah used in his book (

Chapter 36 (verse 23) refers to the body and says that the king cut it, threw it into the fire of the messenger, made of skin

The epistles that the Apostle Paul in his second letter to Timothy asks to be sent to him were

It is likely that it included the books of the Old Testament. In the fourth century AD, with the widespread use of parchment inscriptions,

Papyrus was abandoned in the Roman Empire. That is why in 323 the Emperor Constantine sent Eusebius

He orders fifty copies of all the Bibles to be made on parchment, which will be used in the churches of his new capital.

Eusebius writes that these scrolls were written in three or four lines, which is probably what he means.

Each page consisted of three or four columns. These pages were connected together in such a way that the

The skin, which is clean and free of fur, was placed face down. Then, on top of these sheets of skin, which already had fur,

There were lines drawn, and because these lines were created with great pressure, they would show on the other side of the skin.

It made it easy to travel and write on the other side.

The oldest type of Greek script was called a twelfth. From this name it is inferred that each

A line of Greek inscriptions contained only twelve letters. All ancient copies of the New Testament from the fourth to the ninth centuries

The year AD was written in this script. Later, lowercase letters, which were called lowercase letters, replaced the uppercase letters.

It was mentioned. These changes were one of the readings, the successor of the letters of the word "مزبور غشت". These changes are one of the verses that

From that, the age and date of writing of the ancient copy can be roughly determined. Another of these marking verses

In the beginning, punctuation was not common in sentences and words were written consecutively.

The gradual development of writing marks, the separation of words from each other, and the division of material into different sections is another of the ways in which

It guides us to the date of writing of the oldest manuscript. The oldest manuscripts of the Gospels that we have are

The various sections are divided, but not divided into chapters. The division of the Gospels into chapters was first made in 1228.

It was implemented by Cardinal Hugo Doscaro, and the division of chapters into verses was also achieved in 1551 by someone named

"Robert Etienne" 2 was completed.


The most important manuscripts of the Bible:

Of the thousands of ancient manuscripts containing part or all of the Bible, four are the oldest and most complete.

It is considered more expensive and more complete.




1
                                      Cardinal Hugo de Scaro
2
                                      Robert Etienne

One of these four copies, which is probably older than the other three, is the "Vatican" version.

It is read, because it belongs to the Vatican Library and has spent most of its known life there. Its name and description are in

The first edition of the library catalogue, prepared in 1375, has been included. Napoleon used this copy after the conquest of Italy.

It was transferred to Paris, and from 1849 to 1815 this book remained in Paris. When the Vatican copy was in Paris,

"Tubergen", a Catholic scholar, studied it and confirmed its antiquity and value. In 1889-90, of all

The pages of this book were photographed, and copies prepared by the religious community were given to museums and universities interested in the subject.

It was sent to them. The Vatican copy initially contained 820 leaves, of which 759 are in existence today.

No punctuation marks have been used in the writing of the sentences in this version. The pages are divided into three columns, and each column contains

It is 42 lines long. Experts, based on the available evidence, such as the writing style, writing marks, lack of images and decorations, and

Others have dated its composition to the early or mid-fourth century, i.e. around 325-350 AD.

The second famous version is known as the Sinai version, and the reason for this name is that it was written on Mount Sinai.

Sinai has been found. Since the fourth century AD, there has been a long history in the foothills of the mountain known as the Sinai of the Old Testament.

This monastery was built by Queen Helena, mother of Emperor Constantine, and is said to be located in the same place where Moses was buried.

The monastery was built in the name of a Christian woman who was martyred during the reign of the Roman Emperor Maximinus.

The village is called "San Caterina". It was built on a higher ground than the surrounding plain, and that is why

It has been preserved from destruction for fifteen hundred years. Its fame has been growing since the version we are discussing was first published.

It was found that it has increased. The discoverer of the Sinai manuscript is the German scientist "Konstantin Tischendorf".

The aforementioned researcher, having become aware of the existence of an ancient copy in this monastery, went to see it in 1844.

That body turned to leave. At the very first moment of entering the monastery, a large basket caught his eye, containing pieces of

It was skins. He was told that these skins had been collected for burning and that two other baskets of them had already been burned.


1
                                          Tubirgen
2
                                          Constantine Tischendorf

With the permission of the merchants, Tischendorf stayed there all night, examined these papers, and found that

He has found a treasure trove of precious and rare treasures. Then he took these papers, which were forty-five in all, for study.

He took most of it home. In 1853 and 1859, he returned here again, perhaps to obtain more of that copy.

On his second journey, the night before he set off for Europe, one of the monks brought him a large package wrapped in cloth.

It was complicated, and Tischendorf realized he had found what he was looking for. This package contained the bulk of the covenant.

The Old Testament, the New Testament, the Epistle to Barnabas, and also the Epistle known as "The Shepherd of Hermas." After extensive negotiations,

He was able to buy it for $6,750 and send it to Petrograd. In Petrograd, several copies of it were made.

and later its pages were photographed. After the Russian Revolution, the Soviet government, which needed foreign currency and

Another party was also not interested in religious books, and sold a copy of Mount Sinai to England for a hundred thousand liras. It is believed that

This version originally contained seven hundred and thirty pages, of which 390 pages are currently available. The contents of this

The manuscript is written in four columns, without spaces between words or punctuation.

Scholars believe that this manuscript was written at the same time as the Vatican manuscript, and perhaps only a few

It is believed to be one of the fifty copies that Constantine ordered to be printed.

The churches should be written.

The third of four copies was given in 1624 by Cyril Lucar, Patriarch of Constantinople, to

It was given to the English ambassador. It is said that its author was "Tesla", a contemporary of Paul. But this claim is completely false.

It is probable that Cyril, who was previously Patriarch of Alexandria, brought this copy with him from there, because

A phrase to this effect is seen on it: "Presented as an inalienable gift to the Patriarch of Alexandria."

"Whoever moves it will be cursed and expelled." "The humble servant, Athanasius." "This Athanasius is probably the same person."

It is believed that there was a previous Patriarch of Alexandria with this name in the year 1308 AD. This version is believed to be



1
                                          Cyril Lucar
2
                                          Thecla

It originally consisted of 820 pages, divided into two columns, and included a brief summary of the decorations. Its date of writing is the 16th century.

They know it as the fifth century.

The fourth of the four mentioned versions is the version known as "Ephraim", which dates back to

It dates back to the fifth century AD and is a second version of a book that already existed. The original version, which includes

The books of the Old and New Testaments were lost in the twelfth century, and their parchment scrolls were used to write the lessons of one of the

It was used by Christian scholars who lived in the fourth century. This copy was in the hands of the Madasi family for many years.

It was originally from Florence and was brought to Paris in the 16th century by Catherine de Medici, who became the wife of King Henry II of France.

Since it was known that what had previously been written on it was from the Holy Book, no one could read it until

Tischendorf began studying it in 1842 and published the results of his studies in 1843. He found

Of the total 209 pages of this manuscript, 145 contain the New Testament, arranged in a single column, without any

It was written with spaces between words.

It is noted by religious people that the old copies of the Bible, published in 1611, are known as the "

King James was published in English, but no one knows.

That is why later scholars considered it necessary to reconsider the translation of the Bible.

For this reason, the latest translation of the Bible into English is closer to the ancient versions than the 1611 translation.

In addition to the aforementioned copies, which ranked first in terms of importance and antiquity, there are hundreds of copies and

Another fragment of the Bible has been found, as there are now more than one hundred and seventy copies or fragments of the Bible in existence.

On papyrus, more than two hundred copies in the script known as "one-twelfth", and more than two thousand and four later copies

Greek, which also included lowercase letters, is available. The copyists of these books had to

They have also made mistakes. These mistakes have been identified today and their number has reached thousands. But

Most of these errors are very minor and can be overlooked. I have already mentioned the differences between the contents of the old versions.

There is no more than one-thousandth of the total text of the Bible. An interesting point to note here is that from the manuscript

Written in Greek and Latin in the first and second centuries, only one copy has come down to us, and for this reason

Our reference is to manuscripts from the 9th to 11th centuries AD. Then it is noted that the ancient manuscripts of the Bible that

What we have in our hands today is more complete and more complete than any other ancient copy.




Chapter Twelve


The Age of Archaeology

Over the past three years, thousands of documents and inscriptions buried under Egyptian trees have been found.

Archaeologists have found some of these documents related to the Bible and the rest are documents that document the past history of this region.

It illuminates the world. The true value of these inscriptions, written on pieces of papyrus, remained unknown to anyone until recently.

It is not known. In 1778, a European dealer bought papyrus sheets from an Egyptian farmer who, according to the farmer,

He had previously burned fifty of them for their pleasant scent. In the nineteenth century, Egyptian farmers, aware that this

The inscriptions had buyers, they began to bring whatever papyrus sheets they could find to the cities and

They are offered for sale. In a short time, it was discovered that this country contained a huge treasure trove of papyrus inscriptions.

which sheds light on the history of the ancient Egyptians and their beliefs. In 1877, a large number of inscriptions were discovered in

The papyrus was found buried near the ancient city of "Keru Kodilopolis". This city was located in the vicinity of

The desert oasis of Metroki, located eight miles south of Cairo, was a place of crocodile worship.

South of the aforementioned oasis was a city called "Axirrhynchus"2, which was one of the centers of the

It was a center of Christians and the site of numerous churches and mosques. After regular excavations at this site,

1
                                          Crocodilopolis
2
                                          Oxyrhynchus

The remains of ancient cities containing treasures of papyrus inscriptions have emerged from the ground.

In one of the ancient graves of Flinders Island, Petrie found a quantity of used papyrus sheets with which the inner wall of the coffin was lined.

They covered a mummified body. The archaeologist then discovered that these sheets could be separated.

He did and read their contents.

Worker's anger led to one of the richest papyrus inscriptions being found by this archaeologist

This worker knew that the workers were trying to find pieces of papyrus. But while digging the ground,

Instead of getting papyrus, he kept coming across mummified crocodiles. Finally, he became angry and

One of these crocodiles is wrapped in a papyrus scroll that can be glued together. After

Many other crocodiles were also found with papyrus sheets in their mouths or wrapped in intricate papyrus envelopes.

With the discovery of these papyri, the relative importance of papyrus inscriptions increased over previous inscriptions.

In the ruins of "Oxyrhynchus" two papyrus leaves were found, which contain phrases that

Christ is attributed, but most of these words differ from what we read in the New Testament. Similarities and Differences

The contents of these papyri with the subject matter of the "New Testament" are noteworthy. The contents of the aforementioned inscriptions are as follows:

1- "And then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye." This is the same saying.

This is what Matthew (in Matthew 7:5) narrates about Christ.

2- "Jesus said: Unless you fast in relation to the world, you cannot enter the kingdom of God, and

"Unless you keep the Sabbath, you cannot see the Father." In view of other teachings of Jesus in the Gospel of Mark (Mark 2:11),

27 and 28) The second part of the above statement does not seem to be reliable, although the first part may be reliable.

3- "Jesus said: I am in the world, and the world has seen me in the flesh, and all men have seen me."

I found no one among them who was hungry or thirsty. My soul is broken for the children of men, because they are in the heart of

1
                                         Sir Flinders Petrie

They are blind and poor and do not know their poverty.” These are some of the phrases that reflect the teachings of the Bible and

It can be considered correct.

4- "Wherever two are present, God is there, and whenever one is alone, I am there."

"I will say, 'I am there too.' Roll away the stone and you will find me there, and chop the wood and I will be there."

This phrase can be compared to Matthew 20:18. Surely, this is a truth that Christians in all

The body must testify.

5- Jesus said: A prophet is not accepted in his own country, just as a doctor cannot cure a person who

"He knows him and heals him." The first part of this phrase is similar to the verse in Luke 4. The last part is possible.

It is a misinterpretation of verse 23 of chapter four of the same Gospel.

6- Jesus said: A city built on a high hill and firmly established will not fall.

"Let it be known and not hidden." This phrase also recalls Matthew 5:14.

7- "You hear with one ear, but the other you have closed." This phrase is not in the Bible, but

It is a representation of the state of those who are willing to hear God's promises, but are not ready to talk about their duties.

Listen.

Another papyrus inscription found in the same place in 1904 begins with a preface,

This is the theme: “These are the words that the living Lord Jesus spoke to Thomas and (his disciples), and he said to them, “Whoever

He who listens to these words will never taste death. The words in parentheses have been added to complete the sentence.

It is (.

Then there are several relatively long statements attributed to Christ, the first of which is this:

"Jesus said, 'Don't let the one you seek stop seeking until he finds what he wants.'"

When he finds it, he will be amazed, and with amazement he will enter the kingdom of God, and when he enters, he will remain in it.

Armida: "...These sentences are also not unlike some of the sayings of Christ."

And another phrase is:

"Jesus said: Ask them who are they who will lead us into the kingdom, if the kingdom is in heaven."

The birds of the air, and all the beasts that are in the earth and on it, and the fish of the sea, (these are the ones who drove) you, and

The kingdom of heaven is within you, and whoever knows himself, understands it. Therefore, try to understand yourself.

You will know, but you will find in your heart that you are the son of your father, and you will know that you dwell in the city of God, and you yourself are that city.

(Except for the part of the sentence that says the kingdom of heaven is within you, the rest of it is not found in the Bible.

It will be.

Another phrase is:

"Jesus said: A man should not inquire about his own position and position (in the kingdom of heaven)

Doubt will enter. You will know that many who are first will be last, and the last will be first.

Another one of the phrases is:

"Jesus said, 'Everything that is before you and hidden from you will be revealed, because what is hidden from you will be revealed.'"

There is nothing hidden that will not be revealed, and nothing buried that will not be raised. The first part of this phrase harmonizes with verse 26 of chapter ten of the Gospel.

It is Matthew, but the second part is incomprehensible due to incomplete phrases.

We will never know whether the statements attributed to Christ in these inscriptions are authentic or not.

Some of them may be the words of Jesus. Luke writes in his Gospel that many people before him

They began to write the life of Jesus and to explain his words. And John writes, if he had written all the words and deeds of Jesus

The world could not contain it. We also believe that not everything Jesus said and did was written down.

What the New Testament says about this is only a part of his actions and words. Therefore, instead of saying this

Narrations may be true and reliable, but another belief has emerged that leads to the enlightenment of morality and spirituality.

The ancient Egyptians help.

One of these is a letter apparently written a year before Christ, and written by a man who is not a commoner.

Swadi seems to address the woman who is supposedly his wife as his sister. Part of its content

The letter is as follows:

"From Hilarion to his sister Alice, warmest greetings. We are still in Alexandria. I ask you

I want you to take care of the little boy. Immediately, after we receive the wages, I will give it to you.

If the child you are expecting is a son, let him live, but if it is a daughter, throw him away.

Aphrodisias, you said not to forget you. How could I forget? So, I ask you not to worry.

"The writer, Nabash, is apparently a warm-hearted and sincere man who thinks about his wife and wants her comfort."

With this, Egypt insists on her throwing away her newborn if it is a girl. It should be considered

It was a common custom in those days to throw away baby girls. However, at the same time, another child was born.

The world opened up, and perhaps it was in Egypt at the time of writing that his life and teachings were destined to be this ritual.

Remove the oppressor from the world.

Another letter, the content of which has a touching and sorrowful tone, has been received, which the translator of the boy's feelings

It is a waste of time, and his story is not unlike that of the heroes of the well-known and immortal stories of Jesus. The content of such a letter is

"Antonist Longus sends his warmest greetings to his mother, Nilus. I continue to pray for your health and every

I pray to Serapis (an Egyptian god) every day. I want you to know that there is no hope left in me that you will

Come to the capital. For this reason, I have not yet entered the city. But I have not been ashamed of Karanis.

A village in Egypt that apparently belonged to them (Come, for my clothes have become worn out. I write to you that I am naked.

I am left. I beg you, mother, to make peace with me. But I know what I have brought upon myself. In every respect,

I have been. I know that I have sinned. From Postumus, who has met you... I ask you again and again. Do you know?

That I would rather be a fool than know that I still owe you a single "obol" (ancient Greek currency)?!

"Come yourself...I've heard that...I'm asking you...I'm almost...I'm begging you...I won't do anything else."

Coincidentally, some of the phrases in this letter - such as "I want you to know, and I wish you to know" - are the same phrases that

Paul also used it in his letters.

Several other long letters have also been found. What is most striking about these letters is

Their composition is similar to that of Paul's letters. These letters usually begin with a preface addressed to the addressee.

It begins, and then includes thanksgiving, supplication, and the main purpose of the letter, and ends with greetings and farewells.

Therefore, it is found that Paul followed the style and manner prevalent in his time in writing his letters. However, the themes

How different were the contents of his letters from those of others!

One of the remarkable facts that archaeologists have come to grips with as a result of the discovery of these letters is that

They are all written in the same language as the New Testament. Those familiar with Greek will know that

The Greek language in which the New Testament was written is different from Classical Greek. This difference was caused by the fact that

Ancient Greek scholars considered the New Testament to be a means of expressing inspiration and called it the "language of the Holy Spirit." But

Professor Adolf Diesmann1 found that these letters were generally written in the Greek language of the New Testament. And after this

It also became clear that at the time these letters were written, this type of Greek was the common language of the Greek-speaking people living there.

The Eastern Mediterranean has been. And Jesus' disciples also translated their message into the common language of their readers.

Before discovering this truth, the meaning of five hundred words out of the five thousand words used in the writing of the New Testament was unknown.



1
                                           Dolph Deissman

The Greek language was unknown to those familiar with it, and their meaning had to be understood from the general meaning of the phrase and sentence.

But with the discovery of the aforementioned papyrus inscriptions, this mystery was solved, along with other issues.

Chapter Thirteen


Old copies of the Bible

One of the shortest and yet most important ancient manuscripts of the Bible ever discovered is the

It is called "Reiland" 1. This version is noteworthy from two points of view. One is that it is the oldest version of the Book of the Testament.

It is the newest to have been discovered and, according to experts, was written around 125 AD. The evidence

Another thing that adds to its importance is that although this book was found in Egypt, it is part of the Gospel of John.

Recent years have shown that John wrote this Gospel in his old age. However, some researchers have questioned the time of his writing.

This book has been considered to be older than that, and some even believe that it was written no earlier than the third century AD.

Therefore, the discovery of the "Ryland" manuscript clarifies the scope of the writing of the Gospel of John and reveals that

This book was used in Egypt in 125 AD and even before that.

But the most important ancient copies of the New Testament that have ever been discovered are the so-called

"The Betty Copy" is 2. In 1931, these copies were put on sale in the Egyptian market, and parts of them were sold by

Mr. Chester Beatty, of London, and portions were also purchased by the University of Michigan. These copies consist of eleven

The books include a portion of the nine books of the Old Testament and fifteen books of the New Testament. The portion that contains the epistles of Paul

It was written around 200 AD. So, considering that Paul wrote his letters in the 50s to

50, and considering that the aforementioned "Vaticanus" version, which is the oldest version after the one under discussion,

There are unnamed treatises that have survived from approximately the third century AD. The time period between the writing of these treatises and the date of their publication are unknown.

The oldest extant copy is half of the text. The order of collection of Paul's epistles from the First Epistle to the Romans to

The First Epistle to the Thessalonians is the same as that followed in the current New Testament, with only two differences in its order.

1
                                        Ryland
2
                                        Beatty Papyri

has done: one is that the Epistle to the Hebrews was placed between the Epistle to the Romans and the First Epistle to the Corinthians, and the other is that instead of

The Epistle to the Ephesians has been replaced by the Epistle to the Galatians. By comparing the text of these epistles with their most recent translations,

It turns out that there is no noticeable difference between them, and it becomes clear once again that the copyists and

The translators of the New Testament have taken great care to preserve their accuracy and authenticity.

Another version that was discovered later than the aforementioned versions is the Syriac version of the Four Gospels, which

It was found in the monastery of "Saint Catherine", located on Mount Sinai. This copy was made in the 5th and 7th centuries AD of the Gospel that

It was translated into Syriac in the second century and copied. In this sense, it is one of the oldest and most authentic

It is considered the oldest of the four Gospels. This version contains a translation of the four Gospels, which was later commented on.

The lives of pious and holy women have been written on it. Since the leaves of this manuscript were damaged by the passage of time when it was obtained,

It was continuous, they separated them with steam and then with the help of chemicals they revealed the ancient text. The complete text

The four Gospels, with the exception of eight pages that are missing, are included in this copy.

Among the ancient copies of the Bible is another book called "Dianceron". Its author

A man named Tatian was a member of the Syriac-speaking church in northern Mesopotamia. He compiled the contents of the four Gospels.

He has mixed it together and made a book out of it, which, although it is not a word-for-word translation of the Bible, contains all its contents.

This book was well received in the early church and was eventually rejected out of fear that it would replace the New Testament.

It was forbidden to use it in the church. Although there are many references to this book in ancient documents, many

Some researchers believe that the unnamed book could not have existed at the date it is attributed to.

Because it was written in the year 170 AD, while they believe that the Gospel of John was still written at that time.

It is noteworthy that in recent years, old copies containing parts of this book have been found.

One of them is a page from a Greek text book found in the ancient city of Dura, located on the Euphrates River.

It was found and apparently buried there between the years 254 and 257, which coincides with the destruction of the aforementioned city. Text

The Arabic version of this book is in the Vatican Library, and was translated into Persian in the thirteenth century. As the translation

Its Persian is an example of the Persian writing style in the 13th century, and a group of people interested in language and literature

They have shown a desire to read it in Persian, and recently the preface to its reprint has been received by the Literature Committee of the Church Council of Iran.

The discovery of the aforementioned manuscript has removed any doubts about the authenticity and antiquity of the Diatessaron and its contents.

Attributed to John, who is mentioned in the fourth chapter of the book.

But among the ancient copies of the Bible, the most important are the scrolls that were discovered some time ago in

The scrolls were found on the slopes of a hill on the west side of the Dead Sea, eight miles from the city of Jericho. The story of the discovery of these scrolls is as follows:

Several shepherds, following a lost goat in the desert, came to a cave. Through a narrow opening at the entrance of the cave,

They threw a stone inside and the sound of breaking pottery reached their ears. The shepherds, who heard the sound of the stone hitting them,

The pottery jars had aroused their curiosity, so they opened the entrance to the cave and found inscriptions inside.

They found that it was written on parchment scrolls. The shepherds took these scrolls to the city of Jerusalem to sell and

Bishop Athanasius of Mar, the head of the Holy Mark community, who is a Syrian from the doors of the Jacobite Church, called them, as

It is said that he bought it from the shepherds for one hundred and forty liras. Five of these scrolls that fell into the hands of the unnamed bishop

It was written in a language he was not familiar with, and therefore their true value remained obscured to him for some time.




A little later, three other disciplines were added by Mr. Sokinnik,1 who was the head of the archaeology department at the university.

He bought it in Jerusalem. He understood their value from the very beginning and wrote in his notes: "Today a piece of

A scroll was shown to me. I dare not write my opinion about it. "Some time after the Arab-Jewish war in

It caused Bishops Athanasius and Sokinnik to each conduct their own research and studies on these scrolls.

continue their work separately and without knowing each other's work. In February 1948, Marathanasius, as he had heard from several people,

that these scrolls are worthless, contacted the American School of Archaeology. Here Mr. Trevor, 2 archaeologists


1
                                         Sukinik
2
                                         Trevor

An American compared the scrolls with another ancient manuscript and found that they were a copy of the Book of Isaiah and many other

They are ancient. With permission from the owner of the scrolls, he took photographs of them and sent the photographs to Dr. Albright, Professor 1.

Johns Hopkins School, which can be said to be the birthplace of biblical archaeologists, sent Dr. Albright in response.

He himself congratulated the discoverers of these scrolls and considered them the most important ancient inscription discovered in this era.

According to this scholar, the aforementioned scrolls were written around a hundred years before Christ. Shortly after the news of this discovery

The scrolls were sent all over the world, and Mr. Sokinnik also spoke about other copies he had obtained and

A little later, an announcement was made that the scrolls of the Book of Isaiah had been written.

The scroll of the Book of Isaiah is untitled and is made of seventeen pieces of parchment sewn together.

The width of these pieces is from fifteen to twenty-five inches, and their length reaches twenty-four feet. The exact size of this

It is likely that scrolls were in use for a long time before they were shaped for preservation in cylindrical jars, because

There are signs of wear on their backs, and even a corner of it has been torn off and then repaired. Upon careful examination,

The contents of the scroll of the Book of Isaiah and, considering the documents and verses related to it, date its writing to about a hundred years before the

In this case, the scroll in question is about a thousand years older than the oldest copies that

So far, only a few Hebrew copies of the Bible have been found. Of course, there are copies of this book from the third and fourth centuries AD.

It remains, but these are generally in Greek, not Hebrew. Although in terms of spelling and language rules, there is a difference between these two.

Some differences are noted in the newer scrolls and copies, but in terms of content, they are similar to the version from the tenth century.

Our receipt makes no difference.

Another part of these scrolls contains a commentary on the book of Habakkuk. This also dates from the last century BC.

It is dated and probably written towards the end of that century. This scroll is seven inches wide and six feet long. Commentary

What is written on it contains references to events that apparently took place in that era, but because this



1
                                        Albright

The clues are vague, and researchers have been unable to reconcile them with the events of the time. Another scroll has been discovered that contains

It is a regulation for a religious sect.

It can be said with almost certainty that this group is the same group known as "Asin" who

Josephus has mentioned it many times in his writings and they lived in the vicinity of that area.

The researchers were able to open and read this scroll with great difficulty, and it turned out to contain four chapters from the book.

Genesis is with an explanation of the same chapters. This scroll is in the Aramaic language.

The news of the discovery of these scrolls was met with great interest and excitement in the world's scientific and religious circles.

The one that fell into the hands of Sukin is related to the Book of Isaiah, but it was written relatively later and is probably

It is two hundred years newer than the scroll purchased by Bishop Athanasius. Another of the manuscripts

Sukkinik speaks of the war between the children of darkness and the children of light. Another theme of "Hymn of Praise"

It is like the Book of Psalms, but it does not reach its end in terms of meaning. As a group of scholars have argued about the importance of this

The scrolls were attributed to a number of different groups, but several tests were carried out to determine their exact date.

A team of archaeologists visited the cave where these scrolls were discovered and also the nearby caves, and

The result of these investigations was thousands of fragments of other parts of the Bible and fragments of other books that had not been written up to that date.

No one knew about them. The coins and fragments of pottery found in the caves tell the whole story.

It is believed that these caves were inhabited in the first century AD. In addition, the envelope in which these scrolls were wrapped

Fourteen items were tested using the carbon-14 dating method, and the date obtained was probably 67 AD.

It was a year of difference.

But of all these investigations, the most convincing are the excavations in the ruins of "the ruins of Qumran",

which is located near the aforementioned cave, was carried out, and it was found that this ruin is the remains of a monastery that was built in three different periods.

It was inhabited and used. The first period, according to the evidence of the artifacts left at the excavation site, coincides with the time

The reign of "Jean Heber Canus", or "Alexander Janius", was around 130 BC. This period of settlement

The cave continued to exist until 31 BC, when a severe earthquake apparently destroyed part of the structure.

It appears that in the years 30 to 34 BC, which coincided with the reign of Herod the Great, this monastery was abandoned and reopened.

It was inhabited from 4 BC during the reign of his son Archelaus, and this period lasted until 68 AD.

Apparently, it was destroyed again in the years 68-70 AD, during the height of the Roman-Jewish wars.

It was at this time that the monks, in order to protect their scrolls from the ravages of time, hid them in nearby caves.

They hid it. From then on, according to other artifacts recovered from under the ruins, Roman soldiers continued to use it until the end of the first century.

They chose to reside there. The writing instruments found here and the special rooms for the scribes built there are

There is no doubt that the manuscripts in question were written by the inhabitants of this monastery and the time of their writing is uncertain.

The doubt coincides with periods when the area was inhabited.

Since then, the surrounding caves have been carefully investigated and explored, and in 39 caves, remains of

Human habitation has been found, as well as pottery vessels. Some of these caves contain thousands of fragments of manuscripts.

And in one of them, two pieces of a copper scroll were found, which, because it was covered with rust, had been cut into small pieces,

They read its contents. The total number of fragments of manuscripts found in these caves is more than five hundred, and these

They include parts of all the books of the Old Testament. Reading the contents of all these inscriptions requires at least fifty years.

It is time. With the discovery of these unique and unique inscriptions and copies, a light is shed on the religion, language, and ceremonies of that time.

It is timeless, and it will take years for their true value to be revealed.

Chapter Fourteen


The first chapter of the Gospel of Luke

In the light of recent archaeological discoveries, the events reflected in the book of Luke - Acts of the Apostles

We will follow the story and, in doing so, we will refer to some of the places mentioned in other gospels.

As we open the Gospel of Luke, we find ourselves in the days of Herod, King of Judea. To get acquainted with him and his background,

We need to go back to 63 BC. In this year, two brothers, Hyrcanus and Aristotle, fought for the throne and crown.

The Jews were at war with each other. Both of them appealed to Pompey, the Roman general. Pompey was

The Jews entered Judea and established their government there. From then on, Judea never saw freedom. After that,

Julius Caesar defeated Pompey and appointed Antipater as governor of Judea. His son Herod, who had initially

He served as one of his father's appointees, and after a short time he became the absolute ruler of Judea.

After Caesar was killed, war broke out between Herod and Antigonus, son of Aristobulus, for the throne and crown.

The last person turned to the Parthians, who came and captured Jerusalem. This event awakened the Romans.

And they drove the Parthians out of Judea and placed Herod on the throne (in 40 BC).

Herod's reign lasted thirty-six years, or until 4 BC. The first

His years of rule were fraught with many problems. He fought with his opponents for three years to consolidate the foundations of his rule.

He softened his hands and feet. At the beginning of the matter, Antony, who ruled in the East, 2 conquered Jericho and the coastal cities.

"Cleopatra" 3. But he "Ketabus" 4. After defeating her, he gave these cities, in addition to other areas, to Herod.




1
                                       Antipater
2
                                       Antony
3
                                       Cleopatra
4
                                       Octavius

Herod is rightfully one of the greatest figures in history. He rebuilt the city of Samaria, which had been destroyed.

He established it and named it "Politics" after the Roman Emperor, "Augustus" (the Greek word is "Axtos").

In this city, a high staircase had been built that ended in a space with numerous columns.

While excavating at the bottom of these stairs, archaeologists came across an altar next to which the body of Augustus lay on the ground.

Moreover, in many cities of the Near East we find traces of streets and temples built by

Herod will be mentioned.

Of all the buildings built during the reign of this king, the greatest is the Temple in Jerusalem. Since

Herod was an Edomite and had a reputation for being too religious and too arrogant. Everyone opposed him, including the building of the temple.

But he continued the work of building with care and diligence, so as not to be influenced by the authority of the Jewish priests, who were obsessed with its preservation.

They were sure that the slightest deviation would not occur. He himself avoided entering the temple precincts, and because of unclean hands

Do not contaminate the building. Force thousands of deserters from the priests to learn building and carpentry, so that only they are allowed to enter.

They should have the temple precincts. Also, in order not to disregard the current Jewish tradition, he built this building on a foundation

He built the ancient temple, with the difference that he made its walls higher and more magnificent. The construction of the main building took eighteen months.

The end came. The front walls and ceiling, which were 172 feet high, were covered with gold leaf. This building was called "The Mountain of Gold."

They have likened it to "snow covered with gold." The Temple of Jerusalem, if it still stands, would be one of the architectural wonders of the world even today.

The ancients were counting the days. But in the year 70 AD, the Magians, after the capture of Jerusalem by Titus, set it on fire.

Herod was a powerful and intelligent ruler, yet at the same time cruel. Despite his hostility and sabotage, he

Opponents, he maintained his position and, for political reasons, he sometimes made plans for friendship and alliances with others. He had ten wives.

He found that among them, "Marian," 2 who was a member of the "Maccabee" family, had the most love and affection.

When it became inevitable that he would go to the island of Rhodes to receive the Sultan's decree and his return was not certain, the decree


1
                                          Augustus
2
                                          Marianne

He issued a decree that if he did not return, his wife would be killed, because he did not want another man to marry her.

The woman became aware of it, and since her husband was returning with victory and success, she regarded it with coldness. But

Herod, who later became suspicious of him, had him executed, and after a while he deeply regretted this action.

His suspicion and panic later led to such disasters that he sent his mother, brother, mother-in-law, and two children to the unknown country.

Before his death, Herod issued a decree stating that at his death he had gathered a group of learned Jews,

They killed him, so that Judea would truly mourn his death. The remains of his tomb are still on Mount Frank, where the towers of

It is seen that the building is circular and has magnificent apartments.

The reign of Herod coincides with the end of the BC era and the beginning of the Christian era. Whenever

He has come out of the grave, heard about an event that happened in his time and became the beginning of the evolution of human history, about which

And how will he think? It is certain that he will never believe that this amazing transformation will happen with the birth of a child from a

The village girl in the house of the sorcerer has begun an anonymous prayer! Hero "Archelaus" 1 Galilee and Periyea "Antipater", and beyond

Give Jordan to Philip. Augustus confirmed this will, with the difference that "Antipater" and Philip were the kings instead of the

To be called tetrarchs. Thus, all three named people were called kings. And Herod the king who later ordered the murder

John the Baptist was executed by Antipater, the son of Herod. The explanation that all three of Herod's sons

They had nicknamed themselves Herod, after the head of their dynasty.


Nazareth:

At the beginning of the Gospel of Luke, we read that the news of Jesus' birth is announced by an angel in the village of Nazareth, and

Then we consider the story of Joseph and Mary's return to this village. The name Nazareth is associated with the childhood of Jesus.

Nazareth in the Galilee province is built on a hill in a bowl-shaped valley, and next to it is a spring that

Today it is called Chah Maryam. This valley offers a very beautiful and charming view from the mountain behind the city.

1
                                         Archelaus

In the west, the village of Mount Carmel rises to the sky, beside the blue waters of the Mediterranean. In the northeast, Mount

Hermon, which is covered in snow most of the year, is located to the east of the historic Mount Tabor, which is located on

That "Barak" brought his troops to confront Sisera. In the time of Christ, Nazareth was on the main road north of

And the south, which ended at the important city of "Sepphoris", was located, and six miles south of it was the eastern highway and

It extended westward. Its mountain slopes are steep but fertile, and in spring they are covered with wild flowers.

A while ago, when we were passing through this city, in the ten minutes we stopped there, we saw more than thirty kinds of flowers.

We counted the car at the foot of this mountain. During the childhood of Jesus, the city of "Sephoris", which was located five miles from Nazareth,

It was the largest city in Galilee, and Herod had built magnificent buildings there. In his childhood,

Jesus "Judas" of Galilee rebelled against Rome and captured the city of "Sepphoris". He came with an army of ten thousand.

A Jew attacked Tiberias and occupied it. However, the invaders were destroyed by the attack of the Roman general Varus.

They were killed, and the entire city was consumed by fire. Two thousand Jews were killed by the river, which still smokes.

They crucified him and took the rest captive to Rome. This tragedy should have been a terrifying memory combined with fear.

He must have left behind the hardness and power of the Romans for the people of Galilee. So for Jesus, who was at this time in the era

You spend a childhood in Nazareth, the crucifixion was a reality that he himself witnessed. The archaeological team

The University of Michigan has discovered the remains of a fortress and a theater beneath the ruins of the city of "Syphoris" that supposedly

Both were built at the time the city was rebuilt by Antipas.


A few questions about verses 1-3 of the second chapter of the Gospel of Luke:

Those who read Luke 2:1-3 with an eye for investigation may be tempted to stop at this point.

The narrations of these verses have caused disagreement among scholars and have caused them to be astonished. In the first verse, Augustus is mentioned.

(Augustus) Caesar ordered that everyone in his hometown be prepared for a census. This story is far from being true.


1
                                        Varus

They have a true idea, because although the famous historians of that era described the events of the time in detail in their writings,

There is no mention of this census in any of the existing documents. Another phrase that says that every

A person was forced to go to his hometown to participate in the census, which has led to more disagreements than previously reported.

All commentators have said that everyone was required to participate in the census in the same place where they lived.

And Luke has described the whole world in its excitement and excitement in order to establish Bethlehem as the birthplace of Jesus.

The content of the second verse, which states that Quirinius was governor of Syria at that time, is consistent with Josephus's account, which states that he was not named in

He received the decree appointing him to the rulership of Syria in the year 6 AD. Therefore, the answer that

Archaeology answers these questions in a very interesting and noteworthy way.

Initially, it should be considered that the censuses conducted regularly are a government requirement.

It was Roman and was repeated once every fourteen years. Among the documents that testify to this issue are

The Great Egyptian Papyrus talks about the census of 174-5 AD, along with two previous censuses.

One of them is in 160-61 and the other is in 146-7. As can be seen, the interval between these

The census was exactly fourteen years old. Another papyrus refers to the census of 62-3 AD. The papyrus

Another mentions those who were exempted from paying taxes in the forty-first year of the reign of Augustus, and it is known that

It is said that Augustus came to the throne in 27 BC. And since this king is a pretender from the beginning of his reign

In an effort to reform and organize the affairs of the empire, the first census of his reign may have been taken in the years 23

- 22 BC, or as Luke narrates, in the years 8-9 BC. It is considered by the religious people

One of the objections to Luke's account is that it is negative, which undoubtedly refers to the regular and alternating censuses in

The Roman Empire has been implemented.

But to the question of whether participation in these censuses required the presence of individuals in their hometowns?

A papyrus found in Egypt containing instructions for a future census provides a convincing answer.

The content of this papyrus is as follows: "The theory of the census that is in front of us, it is necessary to include all those who in some way

They live far from their homeland and are ready to return to their homeland immediately to be with their families in this area and

"They shall participate in the census, and shall keep their agricultural lands and belongings and property." In this order, it is considered

Luke's account in this matter is also true, and there is no room for doubt or suspicion about it.

But the exact date of Corinthian's accession to the throne is still unknown. However, in Antioch,

Located in southern Galatia, in 1912 an inscription was found that contains the names of people, and with the help of these names, history

The inscription is estimated to have been written between 10 and 8 BC. This inscription also mentions Corinthius as the ruler.

He speaks of appointing him to the honorary position of commander in exchange for his victory over the "Hamonod" tribe. Therefore, it is known

It is said that he had a command in that area at this time. Therefore, either Corinthius came here twice,

Or Josephus, who dates his arrival in 6 AD, is mistaken in his statement. In any case, he is from

He had lived in that area for many years and was the governor of that area according to the census at the time of Jesus' birth.

Luke writes that this census was the first of his reign, and he implicitly indicates that

Another census was also taken during his reign. So any doubts that may exist about the narrations

This section of Luke's Gospel advances archaeological research with solid and convincing evidence.


Bethlehem:

There is no doubt about the location of Bethlehem, which is six miles south of Jerusalem. One of the

The place is of interest to Christians because it is located in this village, in the place where it is believed that Christ appeared to the world.

It has been erected. It remains to be seen whether this supposed place is the real birthplace of Jesus or not. It is said that the church

The first one was built here by Queen Helena, mother of Constantine, who visited the Holy Land at the age of eighty, in a cave that

The birthplace of Christ was known to have been built.

Later, the building of this church was expanded and became more magnificent, but its location and position did not change.

This is probably the oldest church in the world that has been in continuous use. The legend that this place is the

The birth of Jesus is very old. Justin Martyr wrote in 155-60: "When a child is born in

Bethlehem, because Joseph could not provide a dwelling in the village, he chose ten dwellings in a nearby cave. Origen also

"In Bethlehem they point to the cave where he was born and in which he was buried."

"It is the last time they wrapped him in a blanket and slept in it." Even the enemies of religion talk a lot about this cave.

"And it is said that in this cave the same Jesus who is worshipped and revered by Christians was born." Jerome

It is said that from the time of Hadrian 117 (1-138) the shadow of Adonijah had been cast over Bethlehem, and inside the cave where

The infant Jesus wept for the first time. They mourned for the beloved Venus. Since "Hadrian"

He desecrated Christian places of worship, which means that from the beginning of his reign this place was

The place where this amazing event, the birth of Jesus, took place was known.

The original church, built here by order of Constantine, was completed during the reign of Justinian, the Roman Emperor.

It was destroyed and a larger church was built in its place between 527 and 565. He ordered this building to be

build a temple that even the Temple of Jerusalem could not equal in splendor and grandeur. It is also said that when he visited

This church was so outraged and upset that it ordered its builder to be punished for the crime of blasphemy. However, this

The building still stands and the tower is still standing.

It is said that the Iranians, when they occupied Palestine in 614, because of the mosaic images in front of the building,

It shows Meghna in Iranian dress and refrained from destroying it. The Muslim Arabs also, although the Caliph

Hakim of the Fatimid Caliphate destroyed many Christian churches in Palestine in 1009,

They looked around. In 1001, a crusader named Baldwin was crowned in this church and

From then on, he called himself the King of Jerusalem. In the twelfth century, other Crusaders depicted it with images.

They are decorated with exquisite and beautiful mosaics. In 1934, archaeologist Harvey excavated a small part of the interior of this church.

1
                                      Hadrian
2
                                      Baldwin
3
                                      Harvey

He dug up and found the remains of the Constantinople church under its current floor. Part of the stairs he brought out from under the ground

It is covered with mosaics, and this is the oldest mosaic found in Palestine. In the ancient church of "Santa

The "Podenziana" is a mosaic in Rome dating from the fourth century AD that archaeologists believe depicts a church built on

It shows the constructed birthplace of Jesus. If this belief is true, then the original image

We find the church built by order of Constantine in Bethlehem.


Jerusalem:

In the second chapter of Luke's Gospel, we read that Jesus traveled to Jerusalem at the age of twelve. Here the situation

That day, I will forget this city, the sight of which undoubtedly left an eternal memory in the mind of a twelve-year-old child.

The ancient city of Jerusalem has been buried forty to seventy feet deep under a mass of soil throughout history, and today, except for

Little remains of the ancient city. In the time of Jesus, the "Tyropoi" pass, which today is nothing more than a shallow crevice,

It divided the city into two parts. Jesus, entering the city from the north, had to pass between both walls.

The center that surrounded the city on the other side must have been passed. Herod Agrippa added another wall to this wall, but

Where it flows into the Sea of Galilee, its course is 698 or lower below sea level. After the Sea of Galilee to

The Dead Sea of Jordan follows a winding and winding path, and between these two lakes, which are separated by a straight line,

It is sixty-five miles long, and its route is two hundred miles long. Since the difference in the levels of these two lakes is five hundred and

The river course in this section has a slope of about 9 feet per mile. As a result, the speed of the river flow has been

Its path through the earth is constantly changing. There are numerous eddies and low-lying waterfalls along the river's path.

There is. The average width of the river is ninety to one hundred feet and its average depth is three to ten feet. Near the Sea of Galilee, the river

It is clear and pure, but after traveling a distance, it becomes muddy and turbid due to being mixed with the soil of the earth. Therefore,


1
                                       Santa Pudenziana
2
                                       Tyropin
3
                                       Herod Agrippa

It is no wonder that Naaman the Syrian, who was raised by the clear waters of the "Abana" and "Farpar" rivers in Damascus,

Jordan looks on, mockingly saying, "Are not the waters of Abana and Farper much better than all the rivers of Israel, and am I not

"Can I wash and clean myself in them?"

Between the Seas of Galilee and Dead Sea, the Jordan flows through lands covered with willow and sycamore forests and

It is covered with reeds, reeds, and other plants. These forests are sometimes so dense and dense that it is difficult to walk through them.

It seems difficult. Before archaeologists made this place their arena of extensive activity, many travelers

Considering the heat and malaria and the danger of wild people and predatory animals, they believed that this area could never be

become the home of dense human populations. But the story of Abraham and Lot shows that this region of Palestine was

It has been inhabited and inhabited since ancient times. Archaeological research here also testifies to the accuracy of the contents of the Holy Book and

The pottery vessels found prove that this region was once home to large and small human communities.

Archaeologists have found evidence of an advanced civilization in this region. From this past, there are traces of dams and rivers.

Irrigation and aqueducts leave no doubt that agriculture also flourished among the ancient inhabitants here.

In the eastern region of Jordan alone, more than seventy different ancient societies have been identified, dating back nearly five thousand years.

Therefore, this was one of the most populated areas of Palestine. Although the current population of Transjordan is

"It does not exceed three hundred and fifty thousand people," Glewk, 1 archaeologist, based on the results of his research, estimates.

The city, which probably had a population of one million and five hundred thousand people at the time of Jesus, is no wonder.

That John the Baptist had chosen such a crowded place to preach. There are at least eleven rivers in this area.

"They have streams that flow into the Lakes of Galilee and the Dead Sea." Gluek was amazed by the hadiths common among the bearded

The current white man of Ablat here tells stories. He says that some of the elders of the tribes here tell hadiths.

They say that it was common among them forty generations ago or a thousand years ago. And he adds that whenever one of

If a tribal elder makes the slightest mistake while telling a story, the others will correct him.


1
                                          Glueck

The archaeologist believes that these hadiths, which have been passed down from mouth to mouth for thousands of years, can be relied upon and authenticated.

To be counted as true.


Sea of Galilee:

The Sea of Galilee is a rose-shaped sea that is thirteen miles long and at its widest point

Its width reaches eight miles. Its depth ranges from a few feet to a hundred and fifty feet. On sunny days, it looks like an emerald bowl.

It seems as if a crystal plate has been made of clear water. At sunset, when red clouds appear on the horizon,

This lake, as described in the Book of Revelation (2:15), is described as a “sea mingled with fire.”

Due to the huge difference in altitude between Mount Hermon (10,000 feet above sea level) and the Sea of Galilee (700 feet)

(lower than sea level), this lake is exposed to sudden winds and storms. The hills surrounding it

They are very fertile and are watered by numerous rivers. In the time of Christ, there were 9 important cities on the shores of the Sea of Galilee.

They had some of them from the most populous cities of the Near East. These cities had temples, synagogues,

There were palaces, racecourses, and baths, mostly built of marble in the Greek architectural style.

They had become.

The fertile lands of this region produce abundant fruits and vegetables, and fish from the Sea of Galilee

The catch was exported to distant places like Rome. Now it has started from the southwest, on the shores of this lake.

We will tour it, and see its historical sites.

The first place it is mentioned in the Gospel is "Tiberius" (John 6:23).

This city was built by Herod the Great and was the largest fortress in Galilee. Herod was so proud of the construction of this city that he

To complete the construction, it was inevitable that an ancient cemetery would be destroyed. For this reason, in the time of Christ, the fanatical Jews of this city

They considered it unclean and avoided approaching it. And whenever their need made it inevitable, they would go to the city.

1
                                        Tiberius

If they entered, they would become unclean according to the law and would have to perform the purification rites for seven days. Therefore, most

The inhabitants of the city at that time were Arazel and Obas. However, after the fall of Jerusalem, Hebrews became important.

It became the highest center of culture and education and the seat of the Supreme Court of the Jews, and the Palestinian Talmud was perfected there. Herod the Great

He built magnificent palaces on the hills surrounding the city, the ruins of which remain to this day. Another reason for the city's fame

It was its hot springs that were considered a cure for certain diseases. Shortly before his death, Herod hoped that

He came to this city to be cured of his illness. These springs still exist and are used by the sick and the suffering.

But there is no news that Jesus has ever come to this city.

To the north and west of Tiberius are two mountain peaks called the "Branches of Hyten" and

Their height above sea level is about two thousand feet. These peaks are extinct volcanoes and are usually

They are considered the location where Jesus delivered his famous Sermon on the Mount. From these peaks, the Sea of Galilee is visible.

The view is very impressive. It was on this mountain that the last Crusade took place in 1187.

They took. Those whose connection with the Sea of Galilee was severed fought with a determination mixed with despair and finally

All but a few were killed, and those captured by the enemy were immediately executed. As

George Adam Smith wrote, “Here is a violent and bloodthirsty Christianity, which is as much a remnant of the true cross of Christ as it is a remnant of the true cross of Christ.”

The world in which the Crusaders had gathered was far from true Christianity, where Christ proclaimed the Gospel of peace.

"He faced his natural and logical destiny," and his famous saying, "Whoever draws a sword will be

"May the sword also be killed," he added with conviction.

Three miles north of Tiberias, on the shores of the Sea of Galilee, was the city of Magdala, where Mary Magdalene lived.

It got its name from it. This settlement, located on the southern edge of the "Jansara" plain, is today called Majdal.

In the time of Jesus, Magdalene had a population of forty thousand people and its fame was due to its dyeing workshops.



1
                                        George Adam Smith

Since ancient times, the plain of "Gensara" has been known for its fertility. Josephus described this plain as

"Its nature is breathtakingly beautiful," he describes. "Its soil is so fertile that all kinds of crops grow there."

Trees grow in it, because the amount of air in it allows the growth of various tree species. In particular, the grove tree, which

The garlic tree is native to cold regions and grows abundantly there, while the date palm tree, which is native to warmer regions, grows in

It is fertile, and next to these are also found fig and olive trees, which need milder weather.

Here, the lofty ambition of nature has brought together trees that are naturally opposed to each other. On this land, between

The season of peaceful conflict and strife has begun, as if everyone considers this place their own, because no one

Not only are autumn fruits abundantly available there, but other main fruits such as grapes and figs are also available for ten months.

This legendary environment can be guessed that when Jesus was a year old, he was within the reach of humanity. Considering the situation

He illustrated his teachings with parables of the gluttons, the liars, the wheat that is growing, the tulips in the desert, and the rain that falls on the

It descends upon the just and the unjust, and it unites them. To what extent do his words resonate with the ears of the people and resonate in their hearts?

He/She will sit.

On the northwest corner of the Sea of Galilee was the city of Capernaum. This city was the main center of Christ's ministry.

It was in the province of Galilee. It was in this city that Christ taught in the synagogue on the Sabbath, healed a madman, and

He took Peter's mother-in-law, and healed the sick who had sought refuge with him after sunset. In that place

It was there that a lame man was lowered through a hole in the roof of a room so that Christ could heal him, and it was there that Christ healed the centurion's servant.

Heal the sick. And it was this city that Christ warned against (Luke 15:10). Archaeologists for the hand

Finding the history of Capernaum in the "Tal Hora", which is considered the site of this ancient city and is the largest ruin

They have been exploring and excavating the remains of this lake since ancient times. The most important discovery of archaeologists in

Here are the ruins of the synagogues that were brought out of the ground by German archaeologists and part of them was found.

The Franciscan monastery was renovated. This building is made of limestone facing Jerusalem, and the construction of religious buildings

Facing Jerusalem, archaeologists have identified a religious tradition that was observed throughout Palestine. Although

A group of archaeologists consider this synagogue to be a monument from the first century AD, considering that Titus, the Roman general, built it in

It can be assumed that in the year 130 AD, the Roman Emperor Hadrian made the destruction of synagogues a common practice.

It is said that this synagogue was built before their time, or around 200 AD. That wall of the synagogue that

Built on the shore of the Sea of Galilee, it had three entrances and a large window, and a man could see the boys.

Imagine the interest in religious ceremonies that you see from this window looking at the white boats on the lake.

The space inside the synagogue was seventy feet long and fifty feet wide, and was surrounded on three sides by a colonnaded porch.

There was another space above, which was probably used by women. The interesting point to note is that

Parts of this building, as evidenced by the inscriptions inscribed therein, have been donated and dedicated by various individuals.

An inscription can still be seen on the fragment of one of the columns, which bears the name of Zebedee, son of John.

In the Bible we are introduced to John, the son of Zebedee. It was a common practice among the people of Palestine to give two names in each generation.

They used it alternately. Therefore, it is not far-fetched that this column was used in later years by one of the members of John's family.

The most amazing thing about this building is the Roman eagle used in its decorations.

Now that we know that the Jews hated the Romans, is it not possible that this eagle was killed by their orders?

The Roman centurion, who persecuted the Jews and the synagogue of Capernaum, mentioned in the Gospel of Luke (2:7-5).

Was it built for them? Was it naturalized?

In a place called "Ayn Tabqa", located southwest of Capernaum, the remains of a fourth-century church

We are going to visit a church known as the "Loaves and Fishes" church. No one knows the history of the construction of this church, and

This church was probably built during the Roman period and later renovated. Today, only the spire remains.

It and the base of several broken columns remain, Dr. Morton writes in his book, "In Place of the Steps."

The master "describes his visit to this church as follows": An elderly Bedouin Arab, who saw this ancient monument

He took a broom and started sweeping the floor. With every sweep he took of the floor, the image

A small beauty shines in the sunlight. The ground is made of fine mosaics, colored with taste and skill.

They are covered with them, and among these colors, blue and green are more common than other colors. Whoever created these mosaics was

He must have been fascinated by the birds of the Sea of Galilee, because he saw their images reflected in the finely painted stones.

The floor of the room is divided into multiple squares, each about the size of a regular rug.

Each of these squares is decorated with images of birds and animals. But there is such taste and care in their drawing and coloring.

Art has been used so that people can imagine the creator of these creative images in their minds, who is behind the scenes.

Hidden by the lake, watching the movements of ducks and cranes and the chirping of birds hanging from the reeds.

Ande listens, a smile of satisfaction on his lips. I picture him as a handsome male goose, holding a branch of a flower.

He pulls Niloferi towards him. I like him the most.

» Another interesting aspect of this painting is the conflict between a heron and a snake. The image of a fat quail is also in

Among the images, I was attracted to the mastery and skill of the creator of this mosaic, who was able to achieve a rare state.

"We say, 'Well done,' if a living human person embodies the duck that stands on the water, flapping its wings."

In the Gospel of Luke (13:10-15), Christ declares a threat to the cities of Charismatics, Bethsaida, and Capernaum.

He remembers them as if they were close by, less than two miles from the ruins of Capernaum.

There is a ruin that is called "Karze" today and is probably the remains of the same city of Kharzin.

Here too are the original ruins of the Jewish synagogue. The synagogue building with its four-legged statue and images that

It depicts the gathering of grapes and the drawing of their juice. The city of Beth Sidon was located east of the Jordan River.

Philip rebuilt it and named it after the daughter of Emperor Julius. The city of Sida was built with the intentions of this city-king.

It was grand and important. The only other ruin is a rocky hill that some archaeologists have identified with the remains of this

The cities are mistaken. How terrible and terrifying the warnings of Christ have been fulfilled concerning these cities!

To the north, along the Mediterranean Sea, we reach a place where the ancient city of "Tyre" is located.

This city is mentioned many times in the Bible and in other inscriptions. "Tyre" means rock.

And this name was given both because this city was built on a rock and because it was a fortified city.

It was appropriate for it to be "Tyre." It was built on an island about half a mile from the coast. The original name of this city was

"Osho" was 1 and in the inscriptions of "Tal-e-Umra", which we have already spoken of, the body is repeatedly mentioned. The inhabitants

Sidon "They built this city, made it their colony, and later this city became the greatest trading center in the East."

In later years, King Hiram, who had a great deal of involvement in King Solomon's construction work,

A highway was built between this city and the mainland. In those days, the city of Tyre was the leader in terms of art and industry.

It was the cities of the world. Therefore, Solomon sent a message to Bedouin: "You know that among us there is someone who is like the Sidonians."

"Be skillful in cutting down trees" (1 Kings 6:5). This king was skilled in the work of bronze and the great temple.

Jerusalem used Hiram and his craftsmen. In the history of the next century, under the name of "Jezebel", from the city of Tyre, and the daughter of "

"We find that he resorted to cunning and wickedness to abolish the worship of Jehovah. He, who was a woman and a queen,

Ahab was king, he was able to force him to carry out his evil plans. In chapter 27 of the book of Ezekiel, with wealth

We will learn about this city and the goods it exported to other nations. These goods included: silver, iron,

Tin, lead, ivory, ebony, emeralds, purple and gold fabrics, fine linen, coral, agate, spices and precious stones.

This book also foretells the complete destruction and ruin of the city of Tyre. However, the fortified location of this city, which is on an island,

It was destined to keep it safe from accidents for four centuries. Shalmaneser IV, the king of Assyria, destroyed this city for five years.

He was besieged, but he did not succeed in capturing it. Another powerful king of Babylon, named Nebuchadnezzar, also

He besieged this city for thirteen years, but was unable to conquer it. The city of Tyre was captured with the support of the navy.

With its power and access to overseas resources by sea, it stood firm against the invaders. But in the end

Alexander accomplished what other invaders had failed to do. As the inhabitants of Tyre, who were



1
                                         Ushu

When they were the governors of the Persian king, they refused to surrender the city to Alexander, and Alexander launched a brutal attack on them.

This city was built. Alexander, who knew that he would not succeed in opening the city by sea, built a part of the city that

It was located on dry land, he destroyed it, and in it he created a highway two hundred feet wide, which faced the sea.

The island was ending. On this highway he built high towers and military fortifications. The people of Tyre threw

Torches soaked in oil and sulfur from the sea and by dropping burning red sand from their catapults, they destroyed the towers.

Alexander, who had realized that he could only succeed in conquering the city by sea, built warships

He gathered and went to battle with the naval force of Tyre. But this time his forces were destroyed. But his victory on land

The Iranians and the terror that his growing power had cast upon their hearts, eventually changed the situation. The King of Cyprus

He rushed to Alexander's aid and placed his navy, consisting of two hundred warships, at his disposal.

A fierce battle took place between the naval forces of Alexander and Tyre, and after seven months of resistance, Tyre fell.

The battle was a complete failure. Ten thousand of the inhabitants of Tyre were killed and thirty thousand were taken captive.

After that, the city of Tyre was gradually restored, Herod the Great built a temple there, and a ship carrying

The Apostle Paul anchored in its harbor for a pilgrimage. In the second century AD, the city became the seat of a bishop, but

Its first church was destroyed during the later persecutions. After Constantine, the Roman Emperor, converted to Christianity,

Gruid, a large basilica was built in Tyre, and at its consecration, Eusebius, the second church historian, delivered a sermon.

This church had a roofed courtyard with a fountain in the middle, and three large doors led to the church.

The floors of these doors were made of marble and their ceilings were covered with open-topped wood. In a book called

The name "Foundation of the Apostles" has been introduced. The status of this church and the order and ceremonies of its councils have been described in detail.

It is:

"This building faces east and its dormitories are located on both sides of the eastern side."

He has taken it and made it resemble a ship, so that it will remain stable for a long time. It will be placed in the middle of the bishop's throne and on his side.

The priests should sit down; and the servants in tight robes should stand nearby, ready to serve, for they are like

They are the sailors. Under their guidance, the congregation of believers on both sides should sit quietly and in order and be silent. In the middle of the continent

Stand on a high place and read the books of Moses... and the epistles of Paul and the Gospels... Behind them are the priests, one

One, no, not all, let the people be instructed, and the bishop, in his place, as the commander, should carry out his duties. The porters at the entrance

Men in particular should stand and greet those entering, while female servants stand at the entrance to the women's room like stewardesses.

But whenever someone stands outside his designated place, a servant should take him and guide him to a suitable place.

Do it, because the church is not only like a ship, but also like a flock of sheep. Just as the shepherd guides the wayward sheep

It looks apart, it should be like that in church too. Young men, if there is a place to sit, also sit on the side.

They should sit, and otherwise they should stand. Those who are older in age should not sit in order, and children should sit next to their mothers.

And their fathers should stand. Young women should sit together, and if there is no place to sit, behind the heads of older women.

Married women and those with children should sit next to each other, and virgins, widows, or the elderly should sit in front of everyone present.

They may sit or stand. The servant guides those entering to their designated place. But everyone who enters the church

They can go to their designated place and not sit at the entrance of the building. The attendants should be on the lookout for anyone whispering, sleeping, or

Don't laugh, don't point, because everyone present in church should be polite and respectful and listen carefully to the Word of God.

Then they all rose together, and, while they were facing east, after those who were waiting for baptism and those who were

They have come to repent, to go out and pray in the presence of God. After the prayer is over, a group of servants prepare the food with reverence and fear.

They see the Holy Supper. Another group of servants watch over those present and keep them quiet. But the servant who is in

The high priest is ready to say to the people: "Let no one quarrel with another, and let no one come here with hypocrisy and deceit." After

Then, men should give men and women to women the kiss of the Lord. Then, the same minister should pray for the whole church and the whole world:

The bishop should pray for the people. After the Holy Communion ceremony, the congregation should stand and pray, and after the vows and needs have been made,

It is concluded that each group should partake of the Body of the Lord and the Blood of His Precious Ones separately and in order, and do this with reverence and

They will perform the sacred fear, as they do with the body of their king. The women with their heads covered, as is their custom,

"Participate in this work, but be careful that no unbeliever enters the church."

The splendor and prosperity of the city of Tyre lasted until the age of the Crusades, and the Crusaders made it their military base.

They built it. However, after the fall of Acre and the reconquest of Palestine by the Muslims, the city was completely destroyed and remains so to this day.

It has remained in ruins. It is interesting to note the many prophecies that have been made about the destruction and destruction of this city, because it was not

Not only Ezekiel, but also Aiah, Jeremiah, Amos, and Zechariah prophesied this terrible end for it. Zechariah's prophecy in

Verse 4 of the ninth chapter of his book is an example of these prophecies: “Behold, the Lord will bring him out, his strength that is in

"The sea will be destroyed and itself will be burned with fire." The devastation of this city is so terrible that

In our own day, Kipling reminds us of it as an inspiring incident.


Transjordan and Jerusalem:

One of the most populated and newest areas of Palestine at the time of Jesus was the region known as the "Decapolis" or "

The two cities were called "the cities of the New World." All the settlements in this area, which were Greek cities, except one, were located east of the Jordan River.

The city of "Jersa" is an example of these cities, one of the archaeologists described its ruins with the phrase "

"The most satisfying ruin I have ever seen," he describes. This city is located fifty miles southeast of the Mediterranean Sea.

Galilee was located on a branch of the Jabbok River and was apparently one of the most populous and magnificent cities in Transjordan.

This city had beautiful streets, circular squares, magnificent temples, theaters, and numerous hot springs.

This city should not be confused with the city of the Gadarenes, which is mentioned in the Gospel of Luke (26:8) and is the same city where Jesus was born.

He healed that madman, he made a mistake, because this city was probably located in a place that is called "Kersa" today.

This place is located east of the Sea of Galilee, and nearby, high mountains plunge into the water of the lake.

They are slaves.

1
                                         Acre

In "Jersa", there are the remains of a large arena that was dedicated to women's fencing competitions and was

A pit had been dug and we were going to eat. Here on the hill there was an artificial lake 300 and 700 feet wide and long.

There was a racetrack where boats would battle each other. The main street of this city was over half a mile long and had wheels.

The cars were parked in those lines. On either side of them were raised sidewalks. For the exit of the

An underground aqueduct was constructed and a Greek-style theater was located there, which is still in use today.

You can count the number of rows of chairs. Half of them have carved chairs in the shape of boxes, apparently for

Local personalities were invited. The stage is over a hundred feet wide, and this scene is definitely a sight to behold.

It was awe-inspiring. The Temple of Artemis has a portico supported by columns of red limestone forty feet long.

It has been built five feet in diameter.

On the winding and winding road that connects Jericho to Jerusalem, we come to a place called the Samaritan Caravanserai.

It is called Niko. This is the only caravanserai on this road and can be identified by its stones.

It was built in Roman times or even before. The mosaic pieces seen on one side of it are apparently

The remains of an ancient Christian church. This caravanserai, like all caravanserai in the Near East, has a play area.

It is bounded by rectangular walls on all four sides, and in the middle is a well. Of course, someone

He does not know whether the story of the Good Samaritan that Jesus told is simply a fictional story or a description of a true event.

But, in any case, there is no doubt that when Jesus told that story, he had this caravanserai in mind.


Anya's house:

This city was, undoubtedly, east of the Mount of Olives, where today the village of "Al-Azaria" or the place of Lazarus is located.

It is, indeed, located in the middle of it. In the middle of it is a mosque built on top of a Christian church, and the church itself is also built on top of a cave.

which was apparently built to be the tomb of Lazarus. After the Muslim conquest of Palestine, Christians lived nearby for several centuries.

They were forbidden to enter this cave, and as a result, its entrance was blocked. In the 17th century, a person named "Costus"

He was able to obtain permission for Christians to re-enter it. Today, those who visit this cave after

Walking down twenty steps, one reaches a dark and dusty space, two steps below which is a tomb belonging to

Lazarus is located. This city is no more than a ruin today and, as one of the tourists said, "has houses

"It is like a ruin, and it is full of ruins that resemble houses." This refers to a place in this city.

It is said to have been the home of Mary and Simon, but there is some doubt about its authenticity. But after Jesus left the city,

He himself was so close to Jerusalem that he could have covered the distance in a short time, and on the other hand he was also not far from it.

That city was considered a relatively safe and peaceful place, and because of its command over the Jordan River and the hills of Moab,

She had charming looks, built her own home and shelter. Here Martha, a woman of action, tried to meet the needs of her

He raised Jesus' body, and Mary, a trained mystic, comforted him by teaching him. Lazarus

He was their brother, and he is the one whom Jesus' disciples remembered by saying, "You love him."

According to John's account, his death at the hands of Christ aroused the anger and hatred of the Jewish rulers against Christ.

The last days of Jesus' life were spent mostly beside the beautiful and glorious temple of Herod, and in the Gospels

Luke (5:21) describes this temple as a place of worship built with “fine stones.”

The stones are the largest ever found, measuring 5 feet long, 16 feet wide, and 13 feet high. Josephus

It is said that larger stones measuring 5, 12, 37, and 18 feet were used in its construction. The ancients and religious leaders

The Jews described this magnificent and majestic temple as: "The city of Jerusalem has never been seen in its beauty."

He who has not seen the Second Temple has never seen a magnificent building in his life.

"It is."

In front of this temple was an altar built on a base of forty-eight square feet. On top of it was a building with a height of

5 and 7, and 45 feet long, on those two pelicans, and above all another altar, 36 feet long. The amount of work and

The effort that went into building this temple and its associated buildings is evident from the height of the highest point.

It is about five hundred feet from the base of the outer wall, which was built in the valley.

The place from which all these stones were quarried, according to Josephus, belonged to the king.

Over time, the site of this mine was forgotten, until more than a hundred years ago, an Englishman named

"Barsley," who was walking with his dog outside the walls of Jerusalem near the Damascus Gate, lost his dog. For a moment

Then he noticed that his dog was jumping out of a hole. "Barsley" went closer and saw that this hole opened into a cave.

It is located under the city wall. The next day he came here with several other people. They opened the hole and entered the cave.

They were stunned, and froze in place at the sight of the endless, terrifying cave that lay before them. The cave was vast.

It was so much that the light of their torches could not reach its end. The unnamed Englishman later received the royal ore that

It has been a place of quarrying building stones since the time of Solomon. In this vast cave, there are chasms and wells.

There are also numerous tunnels leading into the mountains. It is estimated that three times as much has been extracted from it.

It is a type of white stone that is easily carved, but hardens in the presence of air. Right now

The tools of the stonemasons who were busy carving its stones two thousand eight hundred years ago are visible, and

Those who see it today think that the stonecutters had just left it for a while to rest.

And soon they will be open again. It is said that between the cave and the Temple of Jerusalem there was a corridor through which the famous Jewish coffin was carried.

During the destruction of Jerusalem, they hid it along with other loot. But as can be seen from the inscription on the throne of Titus in Rome,

Come on, the spoils of the Jerusalem Temple have been taken to Rome by this Roman general.


Golgotha and the Church of the Resurrection:

For a long time, it was generally believed that the death and resurrection of Christ took place where the Church of the Resurrection is located today.

It should be remembered that the city of Jerusalem was completely conquered by Titus, the Roman governor, in the year 70 AD.

It was a disaster. Josephus writes that one million and nine hundred thousand Jews were killed in this disaster, and about ninety-seven

Thousands were sold into slavery. Before the incident, the Christians had left the city in obedience to the proclamation of the danger of Christ,


1
                                          Barclay

The city of "Pala" in Transjordan fled, and the pagans survived. Except for the western walls of Jerusalem, which the occupiers built after

They turned a blind eye to the destruction of the city to show their bravery, and the rest of the city's walls were covered with dirt.

It was destroyed and not the slightest trace of it remained. A passerby who saw the city there after its destruction said:

"I will not look at any trace that suggests that a man once lived here." Later, Jerusalem was rebuilt and

It took over the city. As the city was being rebuilt, no doubt many of the Christians also returned there and

They built buildings in places that witnessed important events in the history of their religion, and among them, they found a place called the "Church of the Holy Sepulchre."

The "Resurrection" was built in the same place where they believed Christ was buried.

In the year 122, Hadrian, the Roman emperor, came to Jerusalem and ordered the city to be rebuilt. He

Jerusalem was destined to become a Roman city. At this time, the Jews were afraid that the site of their temple would be destroyed.

Disgraced, they rebelled against the Romans. The stubbornness and intensity of their resistance led to a point where Hadrian became inescapable.

To sow the seeds of revolution, he sent his most capable general, Julius Severus, to Palestine. This time, after the conquest, the Romans

Six hundred cities and villages, which had become fortresses, and having eliminated five hundred and eighty thousand rebels,

They were able to extinguish the fire of the revolution. After this, the rebuilding of Jerusalem began. Hadrian ordered the humiliation of

Golgotha was to be built as a place of worship for idolaters. By his order, the hill of Golgotha was surrounded by a strong wall twenty feet high.

It was enclosed, and in the middle of it a space was built for the temple, three hundred feet long and one hundred and sixty feet wide. Here

which was decorated with numerous trees, a statue of Jupiter was installed on the Church of the Resurrection and a statue of Venus on Golgotha. This

The situation lasted for two hundred years, until Christ conquered Rome and the Roman emperor himself converted to Christianity. At this time

Macarius, Bishop of Jerusalem, received an order from Rome that the church built on Golgotha should be restored. In the year

In 336, the pagan temple was demolished and the tomb beneath it was uncovered. Apparently Eusebius, who was then a boy,

No longer a child, he witnessed this transformation. One of the later writers attributed the restoration of Golgotha to a later period.

which coincides with the journey of Helena, the mother of the Roman emperor, to Jerusalem. There is no doubt that Helena


1
                                         Hadrian

He traveled to Jerusalem and found a cross there that he believed was the true cross of Christ. He ordered a building to be built on it.

It was built on a hilltop, but was destroyed and replaced by a dome one hundred and nine feet in diameter. The area of the hill that was pictured

It is believed to be the same place where Christ was crucified, measuring 18 by 15 feet. In later periods, this

The church was burned down, rebuilt, and then destroyed again. Since then, it has undergone several changes.

It has been rebuilt and some parts of it have been rebuilt, but parts of it are relics of the Crusades era.

The church in question today is an old, dirty, crooked, crooked building that has prayer rooms and

There are numerous sanctuaries, and to see them all, a person would have to spend several days. As a result of the competition between the sects,

Every corner of this church has become a showcase of various ceremonies and traditions, and every image and every point

Its carpet belongs to a particular sect and group, and the slightest violation of the rights of others is enough to spark a bloody riot.

There are currently six different churches, which are the Armenian Church of St. Gregory, the Polar Church, the

The Syrian Orthodox Church, the Jabshi Church, and the Roman Catholic Church share in the administration of this church. In the

During the Crusades, the administration of the church was exclusively in the hands of the Church of Rome. After that, other churches gradually joined in.

They made a place for themselves. In the middle of the church, where the tomb of Christ is believed to be, is a sanctuary that has been granted permission.

Forty-three lamps will hang from its ceiling. Of these, thirteen lamps will go to the Roman Church, thirteen to the Orthodox Church,

The lamp belongs to the Armenian Church, and the four lamps belong to the Ethiopian Church.

The annual sacred fire ritual is one of the awe-inspiring fantasies that haunt this ancient temple.

This ritual is based on a hadith that says that centuries ago, a monk whose job was to keep the lamp lit in the sanctuary

"The Resurrection" was when he went to sleep and due to his negligence, the light went out. When he opened his eyes, he realized the mistake he had made.

He became depressed and afraid and asked God for forgiveness. At that moment, holy fire descended from heaven and the lamp

It became clear. Since then, every year on the feast of the Resurrection of Christ, this miracle is repeated. The church consists of thousands of believers, each of whom

He is holding an extinguished candle. During the elaborate ceremony, the Orthodox Patriarch, with great pomp, bows three times.

The shrine is circumambulated. Then a group of priests, dressed in elaborate robes and carrying flamboyant and electric torches,

They are singing and moving among the crowd. Then, the Archbishop, while holding a mass of candles,

He is alone inside the sanctuary, holding the silence in his hand. At that moment, a flame suddenly flashes and the bishop

Burning candles come out. The believers gathered in the church come forward, lighting their candles with that "heavenly" fire.

After that, the crowd disperses through the narrow streets of the city, while everyone carefully observes

Trying to keep their candles from going out, they head home. Each follower of the Orthodox Church

A candle lights itself from the flame of another candle, and the unbelievers carry this "holy" fire to the shrines of the Orthodox world.

It will be.

Hatred, envy, deceit, and deceit have so engulfed this great church that people are afraid to look at it.

It becomes disheartening and disappointing. Perhaps the most helpful description that can be given of this church is the one given to the bishop.

The tomb is attributed to him. When asked how he thought Jesus would view this situation, he replied: "To

I think he would say with that same sweet smile, "My children need to play." Don't all children sometimes get on their nerves?

"Aren't they playing a game of fighting?"

"Gor Bagh", which is located near a place called "Gordon's Grave", is located in every direction.

It is different from the situation of the Church of the Resurrection. A few years ago, an English general known as "Chief Gordon"1

He came to Jerusalem, and outside the city walls he noticed a hill whose small caves were shaped like a skull.

It occurred to him that this must be the actual cranium or the location of the skull. It occurred to him that

This must be the real Golgotha, or the place of the skull. The unnamed officer found a cave at the bottom of the hill that was a burial place for human bodies.

and he realized that this cave must be the place where the body of Christ was laid. This cave, which was located in the garden,

It is a large place, apparently the burial place of a wealthy person. Its entrance is blocked by a large stone that was placed in front of it.

It was decorated and light shone into it from the opening at the top, as if someone were standing at its entrance.

He was looking inside, with the help of this light he could see inside. The traces that were found under the soil of this garden after digging

1
                                          Chines Gordon

The find is an ancient winemaking vessel and stones from a pagan temple. It is known

Those who lived near this hill called it "Skull Hill". When the soil of this cave was decomposed,

Unlike other caves, no traces of bones have been found in it.

However, there are those who consider this place to be a real jungle. Of course, this hypothesis cannot be proven.

He proved it, but since this place is kept completely clean and pure and untouched, whoever camped on the day of Eid

The uprising is present there, just as the writer was present there a few years ago, and he realizes that this cave must be like this.

It is the place where Christ was buried, and one can imagine the state of the woman who went to the tomb with impatience at dawn that day.

He saw the angel's voice saying, "He is not here, but has risen. Go and tell his disciples."

Say, "Listen to the heart."

Chapter Sixteen


Growing Church

After Pentecost, the center of the Christian movement moved from Jerusalem to the historic city of Damascus. This city,

Located on the edge of the Syrian plain, it owes its grandeur and stability to the two rivers, Abana and Farpar, which flow alongside it.

Of these two rivers, one flows from the foot of Mount Hermon to the southwest, and the other from the mountains of Lebanon to the northwest.

Both rivers have clear water and beautiful views, and they irrigate vast fertile plains, enchanting gardens, and

They have created Damascus. Arab speakers have considered these gardens to be equal to the gardens of Paradise and have said that because of

When the Islamic armies conquered the city of Damascus, Hazrat Muhammad was asked to enter the city and inspect its gardens.

Watching the enchanting gardens of Damascus will fill my heart with the longing to see the gardens of paradise. Damascus, even today, is a beautiful and prosperous city.

With its white roofs, shops, and green gardens, it is the oldest continuously inhabited city in the world.

In the Bible, from the time of Abraham to the time of the writing of the New Testament and when Paul converted to Christianity,

The name of this city has been mentioned repeatedly. In the days of the kings of Israel, Damascus was the capital of Syria and one of the strongest.

He was considered the worst enemy of the Jews. This city, which had endured successive conquests by the Assyrian, Greek, and Roman kings,

In the time of Christ, part of the territory of the government of Artaxerxes IV, who ruled from the city of Petra from 9 BC to 40 AD.

He was counted. Herod Antipas married his daughter, then married his brother's wife.

He divorced her, and this sparked a vengeful war that resulted in the loss of part of Herod's kingdom.

He left his kingdom.

Paul is the only one who mentions in his writings that Aretas was the governor of Damascus at that time.

But the coins of that time also testify to the truth of his statement. The coins of Damascus contain the image of Tiberius.

He was the Roman emperor who ruled until 34 BC. After that, a succession of Roman emperors - such as Calgula, who ruled from 34 BC - ruled from 34 BC to 34 BC.

He reigned from 37 to 41, and Claudius, whose reign lasted from 41 to 54, is not seen on these coins.

From the reign of Nero, beginning in 62 AD, images of other Roman emperors once again appeared on coins.

Damascus appears, and this is evidence that another king ruled over Damascus between the years 34 and 62.

It has been done.

In the east of Damascus is a gate, part of which is a Roman monument, and a straight street

From which it continues, it is still called "the Straight Gate," and is mentioned in the Book of Acts.

In the time of Paul, this street was a mile long and a hundred feet wide, surrounded on both sides by roofed porches.

It was considered one of the most famous crossings in the world. The largest mosque in the city today is a mosque that, as you can see from its appearance,

It was originally a Christian church, and later its composition was changed. The fame of this mosque is due to this.

It is said that the head of John the Baptist was placed in the sanctuary of the altar in the middle of it. Considering that

Calvin writes that the number of churches that claimed to have the epistle of John the Baptist in his time was

No less than twenty, readers will excuse us if we also regard the claim of the Church of Damascus with skepticism.

What strengthens our belief that this mosque was once a Christian church is the stone headstone that stands on it.

The brick entrance is found, with an inscription that Henry Van Dyke called "the most daring inscription in the world."

The text of the inscription is as follows: “Your dominion, O Christ, is from generation to generation, and your kingdom endures throughout all generations.”

"It will stay."

In the Book of Acts (26:11), we are introduced to the story of the spread of Christianity to the city of Antioch, and

We note that it was here that the followers of Christ were first called Christians. In fact, after

With the fall of Rome, Antioch became the most important center of Christian influence and power in the Near East. From here came gifts from Paul and

Barnabas was sent to the poor in Jerusalem, and it was from there that the two apostles began their first missionary journey.

They did so and sometimes returned to this place from their travels. The size and location of the Al-Jishi market in Antioch made it the center of

It was a suitable place for Christianity. Antioch was situated on the Orontes River, twenty miles from the sea, and here

The river named after him has created the only passage between the mountains of Lebanon and the Taurus. The city of Antioch is located in

It was built by the Greek king, Seleucus I Nicator. This king also built many other cities, nine of which were "

"Seleucia," sixteen "Antioch," and six "Laodicia," the last named in keeping with his mother's name.

The cities were given. In the time of Paul, the city of Antioch consisted of four adjacent and contiguous cities, each with its own wall.

It was formed, but they were all surrounded by a common wall. This city fell into the hands of the Romans after its fall.

It was declared a free city and became the capital of Syria. Successive Roman emperors added to its splendor and glory by building beautiful fountains.

Herod the Great, they added, leveled one of the city's broad streets and created covered porches along it.

An eternal monument was erected. One of the city's streets, which was its east-west artery, was four miles long.

In his classic, provocative story "Ben-Hur," Levallois describes the state of the city at that time as:

Any passerby might have told his friend that he had made a provocative statement. He would say: "Here you go."

It flows westward, and I remember the day when the water of this river reached the city walls. Now the front part

The river is lined with anchorages and ship repair docks. Further south, lies Mount Kasbos.

Which rises to the sky opposite its brother "Amnus" which is located in the north, and between them lies the plain of Antioch.

A little further away, lie the "Black" Mountains, from which the "River of Kings" brings clear water to the dry streets and

The thirsty people bring water with them. The wall of this city is the masterpiece of the art of "Caesareus", the master of wall architecture. This high wall

It disappears from view to the south with its irregular angles. On this wall are four hundred towers and bastions, each

It was a source of water. On its highest point, an arch was built, which was guarded by Roman soldiers all year round.

On the other side, the temple of Jupiter rises to the sky, and below it is the residence of the viceroy, who is filled with

It consists of several rooms, and is thus built to be safe from the reach of the thief. On the bridge that Qadari

Further away, a sign indicating a restriction on boating can be seen. From above the bridge, an island begins, which "

Callinicus "built his new city on it with five great bridges built over the valley. These bridges were so strong and

It is a firm foundation that neither time nor flood nor earthquake has been able to do them any harm. "Antioch in that day

It was the third most important city in the Roman Empire, rivaled only by Rome and Alexandria. This city, which was

It was world-renowned for its beauty, covering an area more than one and a half times the size of Rome, but it was not good in terms of the morality of its people.

"Antioch was considered an important center of trade and commerce, as well as the center of Eastern religions," Juvenal said.

It is said that the superstition and moral corruption of the East spread from the "Orientus" to the "Tiber". It is believed that throughout history

No human race has ever been as tainted by corruption and superstition as the inhabitants of this Roman-Greek city.

In 1932, excavations were carried out in this city by a mixed American and British delegation.

The French began. Since the current city of Antioch is smaller than the ancient city, there are many points in it.

It had attracted the attention of archaeologists. The site of the ancient city walls was identified, and the Acropolis was discovered.

It was built in the 1st century AD by the Romans and was once a theatre with a capacity of

The world's largest theater, which could seat 200,000 people, was brought out from under the ground. The theaters, the villas, and then

Several other buildings were discovered, one of which is a Christian church built in 384.

In addition, numerous fragments of statues and a number of floor mosaics, dating from the first to the sixth centuries AD,

It fell into the hands of archaeologists. These mosaics contain images from Greco-Roman history and mythology, as well as natural landscapes and scenes.

They are hunters and have great artistic value.

But the most precious historical monument discovered in Antioch was dug up by Arab workers from under the ground.

It was brought by the Arabs, not by archaeologists. A group of Arab workers digging the ground in 1910 brought a special cup

They encountered a ribbon-making ceremony that became known as the "Antioch Cup." These workers were afraid of revealing the name of the place where they were to be given this

They refused to take the cup, but they said they found it under the roof of an old church. In addition to this cup,

A cross, several volumes of sacred books, and another cup had also fallen into their hands here. This cup, in fact,

It is a container that holds a smaller jar and has images carved on it that are believed to be images of

It is Christ and his apostles.

Two images of Christ are seen on either side of it. One shows Christ in his youth and the other shows him

It appears as an adult male. The image of ten other people also attracts attention, with their hands raised on two

They greet Christ. In Christ's right hand is a plate on which are seen five loaves of bread and two fish, and

Beside them, a dove attracts attention. Under Christ's feet is the image of a Roman eagle. The design of a vine with images

The other is mixed up. After ten years of careful study and examination of this cup, archaeologists have published a fascinating illustrated book.

He published that the contents of it were the result of his studies. The archaeologist named the round images of the young Christ in Matthew, Mark,

Luke, John, James the son of Zebedee, and those who were gathered together in Christ, Peter, Paul, James, Judas, and Andrew.

These images are each one or two inches long and are different from each other. This is due to the shape and composition of this cup.

It dates to the year 70 AD. Other cups, which have a small base like this one, were made after

The era of Tiberius, whose reign ended in 34, has not yet been discovered. Therefore, he painted the images on this

The chalice is considered a document. In this image, Christ is beardless and his face is reverent and thoughtful. From the perspective of

Art, this cup is made in the Greek style, and apparently belongs to the last stages of Greek art. The outer beaked cup is a vessel.

It is said that it housed a smaller, simpler chalice. Pieces of this smaller chalice were removed from it over time.

Dr. Isin has proposed the hypothesis that the inner cup may be the same cup that Christ and

It is likely that his disciples drank from that wine on the night after his resurrection. This hypothesis, although unprovable,

It is eye-catching and attractive.

After the discovery of this cup, there was a sharp disagreement among archaeologists about it, especially its age.

Dr. Barton believes that the ideas reflected in the images and decorations of this cup are more related to the early second century.

AD, that is, around the years 120-140. Dr. Cook, the Cambridge professor, on the contrary, believes that this

The images must either belong to the Flavian era (70-96) or to the time of Trajan (98). Fox Johnson 116

Some believe it dates back to the 1st century AD. Others believe it dates back to the 5th century and its artistic style dates back to a time earlier than the 5th century.

It dates back to the first century AD. However, Professor Bacon has said that similar works of art were found in temples built in the second century AD.

were built in Baalbek, and "Dorty" has proven that artists from the East were working long before this.

They have followed the style. Thomas Custin, the historian, in his widely published work called "The Chalice", explains

A fascinating account of how this precious artifact was created has been told. The cup in question is now in one of the city's museums.

New York is preserved under the name "Monasteries," and among other precious works of early Christian art in this

The assembled museum is probably the most beautiful and awe-inspiring of all.

Two rare ruined churches have been discovered in the vicinity of Antioch. One of these is at "Seleucia Pabria", which

The ancient port is Antioch, and according to the Book of Acts (4:13), Paul and Barnabas began their missionary journey from there.

This church was apparently built in 480 AD, and was a large church. Its movable floor is

A rare and extraordinary mosaic collection that depicts vivid scenes from the natural paradise with animals, birds, trees, and

The flowers show that it has been covered. Among the animals, giraffes and mountain horses are seen, which are afraid of seeing a bird.

A huge group of cranes, a roaring elephant, roaring lions, unbridled horses, a herd of deer, sheep,

Goats, a hyena, and other animals have been killed. The birds reflected on the cup are an eagle,

While flapping its wings, a duck, which is scratching its head, several peacocks, cranes, ducks and geese.

The images are related to stories from the Old Testament: Daniel, Moses, the burning bush, and Joseph and Saul.

New Testament stories depicting the Magi, the paralytic and Lazarus, and Jesus feeding the five thousand on a platter

It is the opposite.

Eight miles northeast of Antioch lie the ruins of the church of "Saint Simon." Simon

Al-Muqaddas was born around 390 in northern Syria and spent the last thirty years of his life on the pillars that

Their height continued to increase. The first pillar was six feet high and the last pillar was nearly sixty feet high. Most days he

He is engaged in prayer and supplication, and in the process, he bends from the waist to the ground, then straightens up again. A spectator

One day he started counting his movements, and after counting them one thousand two hundred and forty times, he got tired and stopped counting.

He stood, while Saint Simon did not tire and still continued this amazing movement. It is famous

He stood on one leg for a whole year. Pilgrims flocked from all over to see him, and it is said that thousands

Many have converted to Christianity upon seeing him. They say that a bright star shone above his pillar, and a group of

Religious leaders have accompanied his body to the grave. He has been recognized as an immortal example of a Christian saint.

Shortly after his death, a large church was built on the site of his column, the impressive ruins of which still stand.

This church consisted of four large rooms that were located side by side in the shape of a cross. On these rooms

They were covered with a roof, and the Column of Saint Simon, part of which still remains, was placed in the middle of them.

Evagrius, who saw this church in 560, describes it as follows: “The columns are beautifully polished, the ceiling relatively

They have kept their height to themselves. In the middle of the church is a platform with a column forty cubits high in the center.

"On this pillar the angel has lived his heavenly life on earth." Multiple figures in

It was built around this church, and from the ruins of the city it can be seen that it was built to accommodate the pilgrims who came to visit this place.

The churches were coming, and what detailed preparations needed to be made in this city.

Chapter Fifteen


The paths that Paul took

In the book of Acts (4:13-5), Paul and Barnabas' first missionary journey to Cyprus, which was the homeland of the

Barnabas, we get to know him. Cyprus is a long, beautiful, and fertile island located in the eastern Mediterranean at the entrance to the Gulf of Antioch.

It is located and can be seen from this port in broad daylight. The unnamed missionaries in the city of Silamis, where they lived from

It was an important Mediterranean port and the commercial center of Cyprus. This city is located on the edge of a plain.

It is the largest plain on the island. As the Book of Acts narrates, in the time of Paul, the synagogue

There were several synagogues in this city. Considering that Silamis was an important trading center at that time and the Jews

They have always been merchants, and the existence of these synagogues there should be considered a normal thing. Today, in this bustling city,

It is called "Saint Barnabas" and next to it is a tomb belonging to Barnabas. The monks

The Sama'ah have a tradition that says that the second time Barnabas came to the island with Mark, the man whom Paul had met the first time

His own journey had blinded him, and he had built a foundation for opposition with him, and he had stirred up the Jews against him, and they were riding horses in the field.

They stoned Barnabas to death.

That same night, Marcus kidnapped his body and buried it outside the city, away from the sight of the enemies. Four hundred

The year after this incident, the Church of Cyprus was about to free itself from the authority and rule of the Church of Antioch, and for

He argued that this purpose was achieved because that church itself had also received one of the apostles of Christ, who had been established in honor and

The house is no less than the church of Antioch. While the discussion and discussion on this matter was going on, the Archbishop of Cyprus

He had a report that Barnabas had appeared to him in a dream, guided him to his tomb, and instructed him to

Which made the disputed matter clear to Zeno, the Emperor of Constantinople. He opened it, and found within it the body of Barnabas.


1
                                         Zeno

who has a copy of the Gospel of Matthew on his chest. He has taken the relics he found in the tomb to the emperor.

He hurried, and the Emperor was so moved by his words that he immediately called a church council to confirm the independence and

The autonomy of the Church of Cyprus was established. In addition, the council allowed the Archbishop to henceforth use his name with the compound

The Archbishop was also allowed to wear a purple hat on his head.

The Church of Cyprus has enjoyed these rights and privileges for the past 1450 years to the present day.

He has kept it to himself with a strict and narrow view.

The city of Silamis in our day is hidden under the trees of the old mangroves and through the trees of the foothills.

Marble columns and the remains of three ancient bazaars with vast squares paved with marble and with grand buildings.

It was surrounded, it is visible. Among the artifacts found among the ruins of the ancient city is a building in the style of a house.

Roman palaces that had multiple fireplaces and central heating. In the largest square of the city, there is a staircase.

It is probably near the remains of the same staircase that the apostles passed through. The city of Silamis and its port in

The earth has been devastated by a severe earthquake.

In the middle of the island are large copper mines that were exploited in Roman times, and they

Herod the Great had rented it from Caesar Augustus. It is interesting to note that the equivalent of the word "copper" in the Greek language is

The English word is derived from the word Cyprus. Today, an American company is exploiting these mines with new tools and methods.

The missionaries came from Silamis, Paphos, which was the seat of the Roman governor of the island. In the vicinity

Paphos is a village called "Salamiou", where ancient olive trees grow, and its inhabitants take care of themselves.

They boast that the seeds of these trees were planted by Paul and Berna when they stopped there for lunch.

Near Tamasus is a tomb said to belong to Manasus, the same person mentioned in the Book of Acts.

It is written in Acts 16:21. It is known that this person was baptized by John and lived a day's journey from

He had a house in Jerusalem where he received Paul and Luke. And later, by withering away the hand of an unscrupulous money changer,

The tyrant has performed a miracle on him.

In Paphos, the evangelists went to Sergius Paulus, the "provincial governor," who was a wise and intelligent man, and after

Cicero, the famous Roman orator, was appointed to this position. In those days, the Roman provinces were divided into two types.

Some of them were subjects of the People's Assembly and their government was entrusted to the "Caliph of the Province", and another group

The emperor ruled through his governor. It is interesting to note that when Luke writes about Pilate, Felix, and

Festus, as governor, and Paul as "proconsul," erred in determining their position and responsibilities.

It is believed that Luke was once going to a place where Sergius Paulus was appointed as the "provincial governor" of Cyprus.

It is a mistake, because Augustus, the Roman Emperor, ruled this island directly through his governor.

It was learned that the administration of the affairs of this island was later transferred from the Emperor to the Council of Nobles. A coin was found bearing that name.

One of the "Caliphs of the Province" of Cyprus is inscribed, and also in recent years an inscription dating to 155 AD

It was found that it was written on it: "In the time of Paul, the governor of the province." Pliny also called Sergius Paulus as

The author of a treatise on the science of Cyprus is mentioned, and the atheists are another witness to those who deny his presence and position in this

"The island has confirmed that it will be added."

It was there that, in the presence of Sergius Paulus, there was a heated debate and discussion among the wise men called Barishu.

The scholars on one side and the apostle Paul on the other side were involved, leading to the first blindness and the acceptance of Paul's message by the "Caliph"

"Province" was done. From here, two changes in the way the story is told attract attention. First, the name of the city of Solus is derived from this

Paul returns, and since up to this point Barnabas' name had been mentioned before Paul's, it seems that he

He has taken the lead and initiative in the work. But from now on, wherever the evangelists mention the name "Paul"

And his companion "has been mentioned among them," indicating that after that a younger apostle took the initiative.

As it turns out, after Paul the Apostle entered the Roman world, he preferred the name Saul to that of

It is a Hebrew to be called Paul.

After leaving Cyprus, the missionaries returned to Asia and landed at Antioch in Pamphylia. This city was one of the

There are sixteen cities called Antioch, founded by Seleucus Nicator I. The city in question, as the ruins of

It is said to have been a Greco-Roman city. The remains of the aqueduct, built in the Roman style, still attract visitors.

The city's main temple, built for the goddess "Man", had a large altar with carved tablets and was covered with earth.

Underneath it is full of the bones of four-legged animals. The city had two large squares, one of which was named after Augustus Caesar and the other after

Another was called Tiberius, and in them were built arches that contained inscriptions that commemorated him.

The "Man" shrine contains images of a bull's head surrounded by wreaths woven from tree branches and fruit.

The bull was a symbol of "I", the god of fertility. This temple is an outstanding example of Greek elegance.

And the splendor and grandeur of Roman architecture. The water that comes to the city from a special channel is piped inside the city.

It was divided. Finally, an edict, written in Latin script and found among the remains of the city, set the price of wheat at 100,000 after a winter.

It establishes strictness and prevents profiteers from transgression and violation. It has been found that Antioch is one of the progressive and prosperous cities.

It has been a prosperous day.

The first researcher to turn his attention to the ruins of Antioch was an English military chaplain.

A resident of Izmir, named Francis Arundel, 2. This person was contacted by his brother-in-law, James Morir, 3 who, with his

The book of Haji Baba of Isfahani has become famous in Iran, he became interested in archaeology. After entering this field, Paul

The city, according to its ancient custom, entered the Jewish synagogue on the Sabbath and proclaimed Jesus' message to the congregation. Apparently the Jews

The inhabitants of this city were few, and therefore there was only one synagogue in it. This synagogue was certainly in the form of

It is a synagogue today, and in the middle of it is a table for reading the Old Testament. The box contains a copy of

The manuscript of the Old Testament was placed next to a table in the synagogue closest to Jerusalem, and around the table were chairs.

Tables were set up for those present, and women were also seated in a special place, usually behind a latticework or a doorway that led to

They had a special privilege. Luke gives a detailed account of Paul's statements in this synagogue, which is an example of

His sermons are for the Jews. Paul's speech here is friendly and heartwarming. It begins with the prophecies of the Jewish prophets.


1
                                       Men
2
                                       Francis Arundell
3
                                       James Morrier

It becomes and reaches John the Baptist and Jesus. In the first week of Paul's stay in this city, the Jews living

There they showed him a friendly reaction, but the opposition that later arose from their side caused Paul to be expelled from the Jews.

He softened his heart and turned to the nations.

This incident was in fact a turning point in the course of Paul's missionary activity, for from then on he was called "the apostle."

He took upon himself the "Gospel of the Gentiles." It is obvious that in a city like Antioch, which was under Roman influence and power, every

A complaint to the law against Paul by the Jews remains fruitless and ineffective. Therefore, opponents and ill-wishers turn to powerful women.

And they resorted to the influence of those who had converted to Judaism and incited them against the evangelists, and the evangelists were inevitably defeated.

They built "the dust and dirt of the city from their feet," in Qonyia, or Iconium, which is located sixty miles from Antioch,

They will be guided.

Near Iconium are two hills called Paul and Thecla. Thecla was a young man from the

He was a convert to Christianity, and his story is included in the forgery of the works of Paul and Thecla, which took place in the first century AD.

The churches were called, "He has come."

The only description we have of Paul's body and appearance is in this book. The author of the book

Paul says, "He was a man with a slender figure, a curly head, bowed legs, a healthy, well-developed eyebrows, a rather hooked nose, and

A person full of grace and mercy, because sometimes he appears like a human being and sometimes like an angel. "Iconia

It was not a Roman colony, but was governed democratically. Therefore, when its inhabitants rebelled against the missionaries,

They rebelled, democracy was manifested in its most brutal form, and Paul and Barnabas were forced to flee to Lystra.

Only a small part of the ancient city, which may be the same as the one Paul saw, has survived to our time, because this city

It has been destroyed and rebuilt many times.

Lystra is located twenty-five miles from Iphonia, and its ruins were excavated in 1885 by J.R.

Stillington Street, an American researcher, has discovered a stone altar three and a half meters high among the remains of the city.

It was found that the name of the city was engraved on it in Latin script, implicitly indicating that the city was a Roman colony.

Since this stone is a monument from the time of Augustus, Paul and his companions must have seen it. It was in this city.

Because Paul healed the lame man, the temple priest considered his client a god and wanted to offer a sacrifice to him, and

The people worshipped Barnabas as the god of Jupiter and Paul as the god of Mercury. Understand why in Lystra

It is not a problem that people thought of these heralds as the gods Jupiter and Mercury. The reason for this was that the ancient myth

Philemon and Okis were deeply rooted in the minds of the people of this city. This hadith says that Jupiter and Mercury appeared in human form.

They appeared in the city and were driven out by the unkind villagers. Only Philemon, an old man of good character, and his wife

The Baucis welcomed them with open arms. Their provisions miraculously increased to the full.

and the next morning a lake appeared in place of the city, in which the unkind villagers had been transformed into fish.

They were. According to this hadith, when people thought that the gods had descended, they called them the gods of Jupiter and Mercury.

They counted. It seems that Jupiter and Mercury were the patron gods of this city. According to the excavations carried out among the ruins

The city was built and the remains of the temple of the Messiah were discovered, just as described in the Book of Acts.

It has been excavated, and numerous tablets have also been found that were presented to them by the worshippers of Jupiter and Mercury.

It is.

Therefore, it turns out that the excitement and excitement that came from seeing Paul and his actions touched the temple priest and

His belief that this time the acceptance of these gods would bring blessings to the city instead of misfortune was not unfounded.

It is located in the city of Derbe, where the missionaries left Lystra and was the last stop on the itinerary of St. Paul on this journey.

No excavations have been carried out yet. Paul and Barnabas returned from here to Antioch in Syria.




1
                                         J. R. Stillington Sterrett

Paul and Silas, on their second missionary journey, after passing through some of the cities they had visited on their previous journey,

They arrived at Troas, in Asia Minor. Here Paul had a dream in which a Macedonian man who was praying gave him a sign of

God's desire and will for His glory is to reach the continent of Europe. On this journey, Timothy is in Lystra and Luke is in Troas.

The missionaries were joining, and the number of the pagans apparently reached four. The difference in the method of these missionaries for the conquest of Europe was

The road that Xerxes, the king of Persia, took in 480 BC, or about five hundred years before them, from approximately the same point to this

The chosen purpose is a noteworthy and instructive point. Xerxes, according to historical documents, relied on the great

The greatest military force of the age began its assault. Herodotus gives a vivid and well-documented description of the vast army of Xerxes.

And the composition of his forces has survived. His soldiers came from all over the vast Persian empire, which stretched from India to Abyssinia and from

Afghanistan extended as far as the Arabian Peninsula. His forces consisted of regular infantry, armed with swords and

The spear was equipped, it was formed, and among his soldiers there was a group with its own bronze helmet, a group with its own helmet.

They were a group of horsemen and some wore felt hats and colorful clothes. Most of his soldiers were

It was so bad that they separated ten thousand men to count them and built a siege around them, and since the area was large,

It was found inside the siege, and they used it to count the remaining soldiers. As a result of this count, it was found that the number

Xerxes' army numbered one million seven hundred thousand men. There were also one thousand two hundred and twenty-seven ships in the Dardanelles Strait.

They had gathered from his soldiers who were supporting him on land. The Shah of Iran, who was sitting on a marble throne, was looking at this from there.

Safain looked around and was pleased with the greatness of his force. The order to attack was given and the soldiers began to attack.

A bridge formed by a community of boats took them to the edge of Europe.

History has recorded the result of this powerful attack. We know that Xerxes' attack was met with resistance.

The Greeks were faced with a difficult battle. His navy was destroyed, and only a small group of his seemingly invincible soldiers survived.

They returned to their homeland. They planned Xerxes' invasion to conquer Europe in the same way that Paul had planned for the same purpose.

Compare the selection Four men set out to conquer the European continent for Christ. Four anonymous evangelists and

They did something without weapons that the powerful Shah of Iran could not do. They conquered the religion, the heart, and the way of life of the Greek people, and

They transformed the whole of Europe with their troubles. Xerxes was pleased with the apparent obedience of the people and the collection of tribute from them.

But Paul's intention and goal was much higher than that. No conquest, except that the people of Europe would surrender their bodies, minds, and thoughts.

The surrender of Christ could not stop this great evangelist from his efforts. Thus, we see that in the same place where

The movement that led to the defeat of Xerxes, Paul witnessed victory and success.

It began to spread not only to Greece but throughout Europe.

Philippi is the first European city where Paul and his companions stopped to proclaim the message of Christ.

This city was named after Philip of Macedon, who founded it in the fourth century BC. Later, with the war

Philippi, which took place there and resulted in the defeat of "Cassius" and "Brutus" by "Antony" and "Octavian",

The fame of this city increased. The celebration that was held on the occasion of this victory, the colonial city of Philippi

The Romans were recognized, and the Roman soldiers who had taken part in the war became its subjects. Paul and his companions in "Nia"

They stopped at the "Polis", which was located on one of the roads from Greece to Rome. The soil that had settled on this place over time

The highway is sitting. They have removed it in several places and found scratches 3 to 4 inches deep in it.

The cycles that have passed through it have been replaced.

Between 1914 and 1938, a series of extensive excavations and excavations were carried out by the French school.

Athens took place in the ruins of the city of Philippi. Excavators of the unnamed school in the center of the city of Maidani have been digging for three centuries and

They were one hundred and fifty feet wide, ending in shrines on all sides, with porches on three sides.

It had a large courtyard, and many buildings had been built around it. To the north is a building that was supposedly the headquarters of the city's governor.

The aqueducts that were built by the Romans in the city still remain usable. At the point

Another hill with a flat top, an amphitheater, and churches whose construction dates back much further than the time of Paul.

One of the buildings that apparently predates the time of Paul is the colonnaded porch, the remains of which can be seen at the end of the

It is seen to the west of the ancient city. Considering the custom of the ancient Romans, it can be assumed that this building was built after the city was

A Roman colony was established and apparently established the nations of the Pomerania, who did not tolerate foreign gods.

We find that it is in the book. About a mile from this city, on the side of the highway, on the river "Ganjatis".

Acts of the Apostles (13:16) mentions it, and the evangelists encountered a group of devout women who were praying on the Sabbath.

They were busy performing their religious rituals. Lydia, the purple dealer, who is the first European woman to convert to Christianity

Acceptance was one of those women.

"Ganjatis" is a river 10-12 yards wide with clear water flowing through it. This city is like

It was a military base and, since it was not very important from a commercial point of view, its Jews were very few. It was also a city that

A wealthy girl was healed there, the missionaries were beaten and imprisoned, and at night there was an earthquake.

The city, which was converted to Christianity, was similar to the same city in terms of importance and military position. Warm feelings

And Paul's passion for the Christians of this city is found in his letter to the Philippians. This letter is written because of the words of

It is a blank, warning letter, different from other postal notes.

From here the apostles went to Thessalonica. Thessalonica was also at the beginning of the same highway, about seventy miles away.

It was located a mile from the previous city. This city was built in 315 BC by order of Cassander, and was named after his wife,

She is known as the sister of Alexander the Great. In the Battle of Philippi, Thessalonica supported the conquerors and for this reason

It was declared a free city. Its main street was built along the same famous highway. At its ruined gate, which

The Vardar Gate "has a name, this phrase is seen": In the time of the Politarchs, "this inscription is noteworthy in this respect."

It is believed that before its discovery, a group of Luke's critics, who in the Book of Acts (6:17) were among the rulers of this city,

The title of Polytarch was used by the slave, who was accused of using a title that was not mentioned in history. In addition, the inscription

Numerous other inscriptions bearing this title are preserved from the time of Augustus. Then the criticism that was leveled at the actions of

The apostles would have had no proper foundation. It was in the same city of Thessalonica that the opponents, referring to the works of

The evangelists said, "These people have turned the world upside down."

Shortly thereafter, in the city of Athens, which was the center of Greek culture, architecture, and learning, Paul was once again

We're going to eat. What effect did seeing this city and seeing its amazing monuments and architecture have on Paul's mind and soul?

That he, observing the brilliant victories of the people of this city in the fields of culture, art, and architecture, asked himself whether religion

Aren't the inhabitants of Athens enough to guide them? There are still monuments in this city that have never been touched by human hands.

No one has created beauty and allure like them. Many writers and travelers have described its stunning splendor and beauty.

In 1841, M. Lick excavated in the ruins of Athens, and then six foreign institutions with

With the cooperation of the Greek government, they continued this work on a large scale. The city center, called the "Acropolis", was built on a rock.

It was built to a height of fifteen hundred and twelve feet, continuously inhabited since the Neolithic Age. Athens gained its fame

In the seventh century BC, he gained power and brought his war with Persia to the leadership of the Greek governments. In the interval

In the years 443-429 BC, this city reached the peak of its progress and greatness under the leadership and patronage of "Pericles"1, and with the use of

The art of Phidias, the famous sculptor, is known for his public buildings, temples, and numerous works of art.

Using the weapons left over from the Battle of Marathon, Phidias raised the colossal statue of Athena from the ground.

He made a seventy-foot statue and placed it in the "Acropolis". The height and grandeur of this statue were such that the sailors who sailed with it were amazed.

The Safavids themselves passed through the brain of "Danius", seeing it from afar, and the rays of the sun falling on its spear and helmet.

It would make their eyes sparkle. In addition, another statue was erected for Atsa inside the Parthenon. This

Athena's statue was made of wood, forty feet high, and covered with ivory. The face and hands were made of ivory,

"The eyes were made of precious stones, and its hair and its cap were made of gold." Mahafi wrote: "Throughout the

It is not a desolate world that has gathered all this amazing historical beauty. World Culture and Civilization

In Greece, Greek civilization was manifested in Athens, Athenian civilization in the Acropolis, and Acropolis civilization in the Parthenon.

The prevalence of moral corruption in Greece at that time is evident from the fact that Phidias used the gold in the statue



1
                                      Pericles
2
                                      Phidias
3
                                      Mahafy

It was made in such a way that it could be separated from it. Then, when he was accused of stealing the aforementioned gold, he

He separated the pieces of gold from the body and weighed them.

After the Acropolis, the most important district of the city was its bazaar, which was also considered a cultural center.

Luke in the Book of Acts (21:17) refers to the curiosity of the inhabitants of Athens, and a group of secular writers

The ancients also confirmed it. According to Luke, it was there that Paul reasoned with the Jews, the devout people, and others.

The American School of Archaeology excavated a large part of this market, removing about two hundred and fifty thousand tons of soil.

It has been put into the first form.

This market is lined with impressive buildings - including the colonnaded porches, the Temple of Apollo Petras, the Hall of the Council of Five Hundred

The city was surrounded by a circular building of the executive council, the temple of Ares, the music hall, and the library. It was in such a city that

Paul preached the message of Christ to the people.

In the book of Acts (22:17-23), we read that Paul was in Athens with the people who were on Mars Hill.

"They came and spoke. This is a rocky mountain, three hundred and seventy-seven feet high, which lies in the northwest."

The Acropolis is located on a plateau at the top of the mountain. About fifteen or sixteen steps carved into the rock lead down to the plain.

It ends. Stone benches have been placed on three sides of the aforementioned area. This was the place where the council was held.

It was composed of the elders of the city of Athens and was considered the highest political and religious authority in the early periods of Greek history.

It is noteworthy that Paul's words in this city are different from what he said to the Jews in Antioch.

It is amazing. In Athens, he does not refer to the Old Testament, the contents of which were unfamiliar and incomprehensible to the Greek ears.

Slow, but in his statements he quotes the words of Greek poets and philosophers and refers to the altars and temples of

It refers to a man-made object. His reference to the altar and the unknown god seems unbelievable, but

Several writers have confirmed its authenticity. A person named Apollonius, a native of Theppana, who recounts Paul's journey to Athens,

Having seen this city, he says: "The condition of wisdom and intelligence is that man remembers all the gods well,

"Especially in Athens, where altars were erected in honor of unknown gods." A geographer named Pausanias, in

Having traveled to Athens in the second half of the second century, he writes that he came across altars of unknown gods between the port and the city of Athens.

It is, and mentions the cult of the unknown gods at Olympia. Recently, an inscription was also found in Pergamum, in which

It is said: "To the unknown gods, Kapitra, the torchbearer."

Paul stopped briefly in Athens, during which time a few of the city's inhabitants converted to Christianity.

They were shocked. However, they reported anecdotes about one of the believers in that city, named Dionysius the Areopagite.

It is said that he accompanied Paul and stayed in Rome until his martyrdom. Later, he was sent to Rome by Clement.

The missionary was sent to Gaul. He settled on an island in the Seine River, converted many to Christianity, and

He was eventually elevated to the position of Bishop of Paris. It is said that he was on Mount Martyrdom during the persecution of Domitian.

Today, the mountain is called the Martyr, having drunk the juice of martyrdom. He, who is among the Christian saints, is among the people.

France is famous for the name Saint Dionysius or Saint Denis, and he is considered the patron saint of France.

Paul and his companions left Athens for Corinth. This city, unlike Athens, had cultural importance.

It was a center of trade and commerce. It is found in the scriptures that Luke remained in Philippi, but Timothy and

Silas joined Paul shortly after, participating in his important work in the city of Corinth. This city is located west of the Isthmus.

The narrow isthmus that connected Peloponnese to the Greek mainland was located. Almost opposite it, to the east, was the port.

It was located in the city of Corinth. Therefore, ships coming from Spain, Sicily, and Rome would anchor in the port of Corinth. Because of

The narrow width of the isthmus meant that only small ships could move from port to port, and the cargo

They emptied the large containers and carried them on carts or on four legs. In the case of the people, the ships were not able to withstand storms and rough seas.

There was no need to walk the winding and winding path that passed through the dangerous rocks around the port of Malia.

Strabo wrote: “When you cast away the taxes, abandon the hope of returning to your homeland.” It should come as no surprise that

During the time of Alexander the Great, the construction of a canal across this isthmus was considered. This project entered its final phase in 66 AD.

It was done, the pagans, that Nero, the Roman Emperor, dug the earth with a golden shovel and killed six thousand Jews, whom Vespasian called "Vespasian".

He had captured them during the war with the Jews and put them to work digging canals. But after the warning of a scholar who

He said that the level of the western sea is higher than the level of the eastern sea, and digging the canal will cause the Garanbhai Island to be submerged.

Under the flood, Nero was unable to continue the work. Therefore, this project was forgotten, until between 1881 and

1893 They put on their work clothes. The new canal is four miles long and has a bridge over it that is one hundred and seventy feet high.

It has happened.

As a result of the flourishing of trade and commerce with both sides of the Mediterranean, Corinth rose to prosperity and greatness.

Institution. Since ancient times, this city has been a place of worship for "Aphrodite". Around 600 BC, Corinth was one of the

It was one of the most important trading centers in the world, and the pottery and brass vessels exported from it were sold in cities all over the world.

The Mediterranean has fallen into the hands of archaeologists. In 146 BC, Corinth was completely destroyed in the war with the Urmias and

Its inhabitants were sold into slavery. A hundred years later, in 46 BC, Julius Caesar rebuilt the city and

He settled a group of scattered Italians and Greeks there. From then on, the city developed rapidly and became the seat of government.

The province of Augustus, or as it is called in Acts 12:18, became the seat of the Caliphate. Its development continued,

Until it fell to the Ottoman Turks in the 15th century, and Corinth is located in the center of a land famous for its barberry.

The word "barberry" in English is derived from the name of the same city. In the last century, it was used twice, once in 1815 and the other

In 1928, an earthquake devastated the city.

Since 1896, an excavation has been carried out by the American School of Archaeology in Corinth.

As a result of the research of the delegations of this institution, it has been revealed that the ancient city of Corinth existed on two different levels:

One is built a hundred feet higher than the other. Behind the city are mountains that are fifteen hundred feet high.

The city was surrounded by a wall six miles long, and beyond that a double wall two miles long and forty-one feet high.

The port of "Lakayum" had been reached. On the way to Lakayum, in the north of the city, a magnificent gate had been built. In the north

West of the city, in 600 BC, a temple to Apollo was built, from which seven columns still stand. In addition to

This was a temple built for Aphrodite, which was served by a thousand priestesses.

Covered aqueducts were found under the shops, apparently used to bring drinking water and also to cool the air.

It was used. The inscription found here mentions the shops of the city with the same title as in the book

It is mentioned in 1 Corinthians 25:10. Another inscription mentions a person named Erastus. Is it possible?

Could this be the same person mentioned in Acts (22:19) and Romans (23:16)? It is possible.

This must be the same person, because according to the Epistle to the Romans, he was the city treasurer and a prominent figure.

It is coming. In 1898, a tablet was found near the road to Legiom, on which was written "Synagogue of the Jews" and the date

It dates from 100 BC to 200 AD. This tablet may have been in the same building where Paul lived.

He preached. Paul tells of this incident in 1 Corinthians (1:26): “Many of those who were invited

"They are not able." This stone was found near the residential area of the city and is probably the house of Titus Justus, mentioned in the book

The city mentioned in Acts 7:18 must have been located nearby. A high platform has been found in this city, which

It was actually the seat of Gallio, the governor of the city, and it is where Paul was arrested, as the Book of Acts states (Acts 11:18).

- (17) He narrates, in which they made a presentation before Gallio.

History identifies Gallio with the brother of the philosopher Seneca, and Tacitus1 and Diocese2 mention him by name.

An inscription dating from the year 26 of the reign of Claudius, or 52 AD, on the shore of the Gulf of Corinth, six miles from

It was found miles from the coast, in which the writer refers to a report from "my friend Lucius Junius Gallio, governor of the province."

The ending indicates "received".

This inscription not only testifies to Gallio's presence and responsibility in that area, but also dates Paul's arrival in

Corinth also determines. Considering that when Gallio arrived in Corinth, Paul had been living in this city for a year and a half.

It is known that Gallion must have resided there for at least a few months before the aforementioned report was made.

It is believed that Paul arrived in this city around the year 50 AD.


1
                                         Tacitus
2
                                         Dio Cassius

The city of Corinth was wealthy, but not considered a city of nobility. It developed rapidly and

Obash and Arazel came from everywhere to engage in work and physical activity. Therefore, as a center of evil and

The drunkard was shown. In the plays of that era, the actors who played the role of the drunkard were usually from the local population.

They were Corinthian, and becoming Corinthian meant being contaminated with corruption and moral degradation. As we see from the first letter to

(1 Corinthians 9:6-11) The young and fledgling church in this city was made up of people who were tainted by these vices.

It was, and the rest of this essay shows that these people are lazy, aggressive, selfish, and possessive of ideas.

They were in turmoil. It was in this city that Fresca and Aquila, who, along with other Jews, were expelled from Rome by order of Claudius,

They had joined Paul. Tacitus confirms their expulsion from Rome and says that they continued to be driven out by personal incitement.

They were stirring up trouble in the name of Cestius, and by these troubles he undoubtedly meant the attacks that were being made by the Jews against

Christians were being renewed. In the city of Corinth, Paul, Fresca, and Aquila were engaged in tentmaking and selling it. Apparently

A city like Qarniz was an ideal place for this work.

Another feature of the ancient city of Corinth is the competitions called "Barzakhi" which take place every two years.

In this city, games were held, and among them the Olympic Games were the most famous. Since Paul had been there for two years,

Mutawalli, who lived in this city, is believed to have witnessed one of these exciting competitions. In his letters to

The Christians of Corinth repeatedly referred to these contests. For example, in verses 24-27 of chapter 9 of 1 Corinthians,

When Paul mentions these competitions, he is referring to the prize given to the winners of the competition, the

The difficult exercises that athletes did to prepare for the competition and the crown of victory that came to their heads

In other parts of Paul's epistles, there are other references to the period of the games.

We encounter judges, fights with animals, and a contested oration. As can also be seen from the writings of others,

They used to swear an oath ten months before the start of the games for athletes who wanted to participate in competitions and tests of strength.

Prepare yourself for your competitions by doing difficult and rigorous exercises. It is observed that in religious people,

The description of the situation in Corinth given in the Book of Acts and the Epistles of Paul is completely consistent with what is known about this matter.

It is consistent with recent treatises by archaeologists.

Paul's stay in Ephesus lasted three years, and this was in addition to his stay in each of the cities of

The other, which he saw on his missionary journeys, is longer. In Paul's time, it was long before

The city of Ephesus was founded. This city has seen many events throughout its history and has successively

It was conquered by Croesus, Cyrus, Alexander, and the Romans. In ancient times, Ephesus was the capital of the state, and in the

Paul was located between Antioch and Alexandria and was one of the largest cities in the Eastern Roman Empire.

Ephesus was built on the western bank of the river "Caister", three miles from the sea, and in the time of Paul, it was named after the river.

It is navigable and was used for loading and unloading ships. The nearest railway station is

This city is called "Ayasalok"1, which is a diminutive of "Agios Theologians,"2 and this is the nickname given to John the Baptist.

The apostle, who spent the last years of his life in this city, was given a beautiful church in Ephesus by Emperor Justin.

It is a monument.

Ephesus was particularly famous for its worship of Artemis. Artemis was originally the local goddess of the city,

But the Greeks made it their deity and identified it with their goddess Diana. An English archaeologist named J.T.

In 1863, Wood 3 excavated in the abandoned district of Ephesus, hoping to find the Temple of Diana. Six years later,

His struggles, accompanied by many hardships and misfortunes, continued without any results, until finally he obtained a tablet that

He guided him to the site of the temple of Diana. On this tablet are statues of gold and silver weighing 6-7 pounds, which were dedicated to Diana.

It has been presented and its place in the temple has been mentioned.




1
                                       Ayasaluk
2
                                       Agios Theologos
3
                                       J. T. Wood

The people of Ephesus had a special procedure for washing and caring for these bodies, as the religious people in

On Diana's birthday, the bodies were carried in a ceremony of mingled solemnity and pomp from the Magnès Gate to the city theater.

And they entered the temple through the gate of Chorisin. 2 After examining the path that connected these two gates,

The unnamed archaeologist eventually managed to find the temple ruins, which are located about a mile northwest of the city.

The excavations that were later carried out by English and Austrian archaeologists in Ephesus yielded the following results:

Another amazing discovery has been made. The original temple in the 6th century BC was a ceremonial sanctuary with a wooden ceiling.

Later, other places of worship were built in place of this sanctuary, and the construction of one of them, which was completed in 431 BC,

It was stopped and lasted for one hundred and twenty years. This temple of food was burned down and in its place was built around 350 BC.

The construction of the Greek temple began, which Alexander completed. This building was one hundred and sixty meters wide and three hundred and thirty meters high.

It was forty feet long. In it were one hundred marble columns fifty-five feet high. Its ceiling was covered with large marble slabs.

It was decorated with carvings and gold. A traveler who saw this temple wrote: "From the walls and hanging gardens

Ancient Babylon, the statue of the Olympian god, the colossal statue of Rhodes, the suffering and fatigue that went into building the towering pyramids, and

I have seen the ancient tomb of Mausolus. But when my eyes fell on the temple of Ephesus, which is hidden among the clouds of the sky,

"I forgot all these memories," he said. "Truly this temple was worthy of the people of Ephesians to say: "It is great."

Diana of the Ephesians!

The inhabitants of Ephesus believed that the body of Diana had fallen from the sky. If this claim is true,

It is possible that this stone was a celestial stone. One of the months of the year in Ephesus was dedicated to pilgrimage.

During this month, people would stop all normal activities and occupations and would carry out programs that

It included wrestling competitions, demonstrations, and religious processions. Thousands of Simin tombs were sold to pilgrims as souvenirs.

During the festival days, the huge body of Diana was carried through the city on a chariot pulled by mules, deer, and antelope.


1
                                         Magnesian
2
                                         Corsican

They were giving. Under the altar of the temple of the thousands, a piece of gold and amber was found by the excavators.

Among them is the figure of Artemis. The identity of this temple is known from the bases of its carved columns, which are now

It has been revealed that it has been put on public display in London.

Paul worked and preached in this city, as mentioned in the Book of Acts (31:20).

He taught in the afternoons at the Tyrannus School, and there he achieved such success that many of the

People, eager for the sake of medicine, brought books of sorcery and magic worth fifty thousand pieces of silver and burned them. Paul's Work

It dealt such a blow to the prosperity of the idol-selling market that they incited the people against the police and a crowd of people went to the theater.

They shouted, "Great is Diana of the Ephesians!" The theater where these demonstrations took place was completely destroyed.

The soil has been brought out.

This theater is located on a hill overlooking the city, with a valley in the middle, making it a natural amphitheater.

It was built and had a capacity of twenty-five thousand spectators. The interesting appearance of this theater with the

They were beautifully decorated. As can be seen from its remains, after the time of Paul, the theater building was renovated, but

Its location has not changed. A road half a mile long and thirty-five feet wide has been laid from the theater to the harbor. In this

The city was located in a square surrounded by buildings, temples, roofed porches, and an enclosed library. A gate

History was at the head of the port road.

One of the remains of a relatively late period in Ephesus is the ruins of the double church of the Virgin Mary.

where the famous Council of Ephesus was held in 431. In addition to these extensive underground catacombs in

This city is located where they are associated with the legend of the Seven Sleeping Beauty. The aforementioned legend says that in the year 250 AD,

During the persecution of the "Deceans", 27 Christians took refuge in underground caves. By order of the emperor, the entrance to the caves was closed.

They blocked it so that the Christians could die inside them. But they fell into a long sleep and two hundred years later they


1
                                         Tiranus
2
                                         Decian

The doors opened, and they emerged from the crypt alive and well, before Theodosius II, the Emperor, and Bishop Maximus.

They confirmed their steadfastness in their faith and passed away in the year 450 AD.

The last city we read of Paul choosing to reside in was Rome. In Paul's time, eight hundred years had passed since

The time of the founding of this city was passing. The seven famous rows of hills on which the city was built are like the fingers of a hand.

They pointed towards the Tiber River and their height varied from one hundred and fifty to four hundred and fifty feet. The city of Rome was the first

It was built in the plain and then gradually expanded to the present-day Tehran, and its area extended to the surrounding heights.

This city is a mixture of crowded slums, stately government buildings, middle-class houses, wealthy villas, and

Beautiful gardens and residences were formed on the hills, and there were anchorages and marinas along the Tiber River. The city

Rome, like all ancient cities, was surrounded by walls. The length of these walls on three sides of the city was five kilometers in the time of Paul.

It reached a distance of about 100 miles and was surrounded by the Tiber River on the other side. Around the city was a ditch thirty miles deep and a hundred miles wide.

It was built thirty feet high, and outside it was a city wall thirty feet high and a hundred feet thick, and within it were storehouses.

Several were built for weapons and soldiers. The Tiber River was crossed by seven bridges, whose existence was crucial in times of war.

It was a source of confusion and concern for the city's defenders.

Water was brought from springs and springs by well-known channels covered with solid walls.

Streams in the surrounding mountains were brought to the city. After exiting the seven large dams at the end of the

The aforementioned stream was naturalized, stored in a hundred large reservoirs, and from there flowed to seven hundred pools and fifteen fountains in

The public squares of the city were filled with water. The public baths were also a place where the people of the city gathered.

The demand was met from this same warehouse.

Rome, like other ancient cities, had a large central square measuring one hundred and fifty kilometers in width and length.

It was three hundred feet long, and at its end was a platform eleven feet high and eighty feet long for distinguished and distinguished personalities to sit on.


1
                                          Theodosius
2
                                          Maxim

The city was located in this square. This square was considered the religious, legal, and commercial center of the city. It also had temples for the gods.

It was built in various ways. Augustus is said to have repaired eighty-two of these temples. In addition to

Numerous temples, sanctuaries, altars, and statues can be seen in this area.

The city of Rome had two large open-air theaters, each with a capacity of twenty thousand people.

Public competitions and women's fencing competitions were held in three spacious arenas named after Nero, Flaminius, and Maxius in this city.

It was estimated to be seven hundred and one hundred and thirty yards long and wide. This square could probably hold twenty thousand people.

He himself had given place. Monuments were built in the city in memory of Augustus and Tiberius, and their bodies were placed in various parts of the city.

Three hundred important people, famous and unknown, who we do not know today, were there. The latest decorative style that was in

During the time of Paul, it was common in this city to erect ornate columns, the number of which in the city was estimated at four hundred.

In addition to these, there were numerous small parks and tourist attractions in this city. In short, this city was beautiful in every way.

It deserved to be the capital of the world.

But alongside the beautiful and magnificent buildings of this city, there were also vast slums that stretched from the narrow streets.

The neighborhoods were crowded with four or five-story houses. Sudden collapses in these neighborhoods

The walls or floors of the room were destroyed and fire was a common occurrence. The only way to fight the fire was with buckets of water and

The cost of the fire department was covered by funds paid by the owners of the houses that caught fire.

When a fire breaks out, fire department officials arrive at the scene to discuss the cost.

Whenever there was no agreement among them about the amount, the firefighters would leave and

They let the fire turn the building from top to bottom into ashes. Since there was no means of collecting garbage in the city,

The narrow alleys were filled with garbage. The stagnant water around the city was also a breeding ground for mosquitoes.

It should not be surprising that infectious diseases are so prevalent in this city. The city streets are dark at night.

It went away, and therefore, despite the seven thousand guards guarding it, theft was rampant there, and

It was considered a normal thing. During the day, no vehicles except government vehicles were allowed to move in the city,

This was very uncomfortable at night with the ear-splitting noise of the carts that were busy meeting the needs of the population.

The type of merchandise it traded was clearly described in the Book of Revelation (10:18-13).

The author's description of these goods ends with "herds, horses, chariots, bodies, and population."

The arrival of the people's language was that all roads lead to Rome, and the roads built by the Romans

It is better and more complete than all the other roads. Paul traveled to Rome by the so-called "Appian Way," which was the most famous road of that time.

This road ran from Rome to Capua and then extended to Brundisium. Parts of it still exist.

It is used. The roads that the Romans built usually consisted of four layers. The bottom layer was made of stone slabs.

It was formed, covered with stone slabs, the third layer formed a hard and solid core, and

These layers were covered with many-sided flat stones. In some places, the height of these paths reached three feet.

You can imagine Paul's feelings as he crossed this famous road, encountering the many chariots heading towards Rome.

They were moving, watching the water channels that were drawn along the paths, and finally when they saw

The temples and villas of this city appeared before his eyes from afar, in the form of a sculpture.


Chapter Seventeen


The Seven Churches of Revelation

In the first chapter of the Book of Revelation, with messages addressed to seven churches in western Asia Minor,

Sent. Let's get acquainted. Now let us turn our attention to these cities for a few moments and see.

What does archaeology say about these cities and the connection and relevance of the aforementioned messages to the situation of their inhabitants?

The first of these cities is Ephesus. Since we have already discussed this city in detail, we will discuss it here.

Recall the warning given to this city in the fifth verse of the second chapter of the Book of Revelation, which says, "Take your lamp from the

"I will move the place." We will suffice. Today, instead of this city, there is nothing but desert, and instead of that port, there is nothing but a ravine.

It does not eat. Even the river that used to flow through it has become clogged with mud and silt and is no longer navigable. Its churches

It has been destroyed and its lamp has actually been moved from its place.

Smyrna (Izmir) is located fifty miles north of Ephesus, and between it and the city of Ephesus is the

The use of the titles of Guardian of the Temple and Protector of the Religion was a source of controversy and conflict. The Book of Revelation's Description of Christ

Because a man who was dead and came to life has been proven true about this city. Because this city was founded in the year 500 BC.

It was destroyed by the Lydians and rebuilt four hundred years later. The sloping hill of Pagus with public buildings

The palace that stood on top of it and the rest of the city that spread out at the foot of the hill were aptly described as the "Crown of Izmir".

This city was built by. This city is depicted on its coins as a person wearing a crown of flowers.

This is a fitting and beautiful promise given in the Book of Revelation (10:2): “I will give you the crown of life.”

"I will give it." The competitions of this city were famous in the world at that time, and the leaders were known for their heroic deeds in the competitions.

They were given a crown, but the crown of life that was promised is imperishable and eternal.

Another city named after John's Revelation is "Pergamos." This was the center of the official authorities and

It was a government. That is why Christ is described here as "the one who has a two-edged sword." First,

The temple dedicated to the worship of the emperor throughout Asia was located in this city. Therefore, from the city of Pergamum in

The Book of Revelation calls it "the throne room of Satan" and its inhabitants are advised to renounce the name of the Emperor and Christ.

(13:2) The writer's intention with the white stone is a place of discussion and conversation, not because it is a metaphor.

It was not found for that reason, but because many verses have been found. It is possible that the writer intended that stone

It could be the white one that a jury in court would use when deciding whether a defendant was innocent, or perhaps

It was a tablet that was placed on the doors of banquet halls, or it may be a reference to the "Urim" and "Thummim" stones that

The names of the people were written on it, or perhaps it is a reference to the spell that the magicians used to enter the cave of the treasure.

They were resorting.

Thyatira was located forty miles southwest of Pergamon. Inscriptions from that time

It is said that this city was a center of trade and commerce, and this is what led to the life and existence of the church in Thyatira.

threatened. At guild meetings, guests were entertained with meat that had previously been offered to idols.

They did, the people clung to pagan gods. And the feasts often ended in drunkenness and shameful acts.

For this reason, the morality of the Christians of this city was constantly in danger. Therefore, the Book of Revelation describes the Christians residing in this city as

The city is in danger from "Jezebel," who lies in wait for the men of God and tempts them to eat meat sacrificed to idols.

It encourages, informs, and warns. In the market of Thyatira, beautiful bronze objects were made, and the description

The Book of Revelation refers to the Son of God, who “has eyes like a flame of fire and his feet are like burnished bronze.”

It is the same thing.

Sardis, the former capital of Lydia, was located thirty-five miles south of Bactria's Thyatira. This city was

The corruption and moral pollution of its people was well-known and obvious. The Book of Revelation warns the people of this port that Christ, like

The thief will come to their rescue at an unknown hour, which is indicative of their spirit, because the unnamed port has been robbed twice throughout its history.

The city of Beiband and its inhabitants had fallen into the hands of foreigners. Cyrus the Great had taken the city from Croesus, who had been unable to

He built it out in a suitable manner to provide it with means of defense, and Antiochus the Great, by ascending the slope of the fortress,

The city's defenders considered it impassable and therefore did not attempt to defend it. They captured this port.

Therefore, Christ warns his church to “be awake and watch.”

The city of Philadelphia was located twenty-eight miles southwest of Sardis. About fifty years before

The Book of Revelations was written by a terrible earthquake that devastated this city before it was written, and its terrified inhabitants were

They were scattered around. Therefore, the Book of Revelation promises from Christ that the Christians of this city will be like pillars of

They will be stable and unshakeable. After the earthquake, the city was renamed "Arkham" as a token of gratitude for Caesar's help.

New Caesarea was transformed. It is with reference to this event that the Book of Revelation, when discussing this city, says:

"I will give the name of my God to the believers in the city and I will put my new name on them."

Neither cold nor hot is an apt description of the water of the springs near the city of Laodicea and also an allusion to

It is the spirit of its inhabitants. In the Book of Revelation, Christ describes the inhabitants of this city as boasting about their wealth and power.

He criticizes, but considering that this city was a center of money exchange, one should not be surprised by the feelings of its people. The city

Laodicea was famous for its black cloth production and also for its flourishing medical school. Therefore, Christ

The people of this city advise: "Buy from me gold refined by fire, that you may become rich, and white linen, that you may

"Be covered, and the shame of your nakedness will not be revealed, and put the capital on your eyes, that you may see."

Nur Jahan Publications

