Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad


The truth about Muhammad
The founder of the world's most intolerant religion
Robert Spencer
Ali Ranjbar and Hamidreza Abdalhi




0

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




1

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




The truth about Muhammad
The founder of the most intolerant religion
World
Robert Spencer
                         translators
Ali Ranjbar and Hamidreza Abdalhi




Electronic publication of the Ethr website
Publication number 30:
http://www.asar.name




2

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




The Truth About
Muhammad
Founder of the World's Most Intolerant Religion

by
                  Robert Spencer
                      Translators
          Ali Ranjbar & Hamidreza Abdolhay




3

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




Dedicated to those who fight tyranny




4

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




Table of Contents:

Translator's Introduction 6.................................................................................................
Chapter One: Why is the biography of Muhammad relevant now? 9......
Chapter Two in Search of the Real Muhammad in History 28.................................
Chapter Three Muhammad Becomes a Prophet44................................................................
Chapter Four: Muhammad's Revelations and Their Sources59........................................................
Chapter Five Warning in the Face of a Dangerous Punishment86................................
Chapter Six Muhammad Becomes a Warrior104..................................................
Chapter 7: War is cunning123................................................................
Chapter Eight: Instilling Terror in the Hearts 150................................................................
Chapter Nine: Victory through Terror and Terror 177 ...................................
Chapter Ten: The Legacy of Muhammad 207........................................................................
Notes 240................................................................................................................




5

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad



Translator's Introduction


The first question that came to my mind while translating this book and I wanted to
The audience of Grami should also ask themselves, this is a bitter question: why do we
Years of living in a religious environment and studying the Quran, finally these truths about
We hear about Islam and the life of Muhammad from the lips of a Western researcher. Is this question
The only answer is that we have only been told about Islam.
Do we want to hear? For years, we have been arguing and arguing with Muslims to free them.
From the category of superstitions, when we refer to the original texts of the Quran and Sunnah of these facts
I would say that, but at first they would deny it with disbelief. I understand this feeling very well.
I understand why I was also imprisoned for the first time in 1379 in a high security prison.
Evin, the only time I had enough time to study the Quran and the keys, this
I experienced a feeling of bitterness.
Years ago, as a political prisoner, in a cramped solitary cell, the hours ticked by.
I would sit on the wings of imagination and fly into my past and thoughts,
Review and criticize your thoughts, beliefs, and actions from the distant past.
I was a man with a religious experience in childhood, loyal to the revolution.
Islam, participation in the Eight Years' War, and even a history of membership in the Revolutionary Guards
And with all this, I had ended up in Evin Prison for nothing. Sometimes by reading
The graffiti of the people who were in this cell before me is a reflection of the same thing.
I did, sometimes I tried to get people arrested in neighboring cells.
I would like to ask what they were doing. But I always wondered if all these measures



6

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Under the banner of Islam, in compliance with Sharia law and in accordance with religious rulings.
It is.
With great insistence, I requested the Quran and the Keys to Paradise and began studying them.
The more and more deeply I looked at the verses, hadiths, and claims, the more I saw contradictions.
I was amazed by the content of this religion, with its moral principles and the requirements of modern life. More than
My entire encounter was with the issue that in Islam, the benefit of thought is based on principles.
Morality is preferable.
After being released from prison, my dear friend, Mr. Hamidreza Abdallahi, and I decided
With an impartial mind and free from prejudice, we conducted extensive research into the religion of Islam.
Let's begin. In addition to a large collection of articles, the translation of this book is the result of this
It is studies.
I urge the reader to read the book with a critical eye and free from prejudice.
Slow down. I ask believing Muslims and even clerics to, without anger and prejudice,
Consider this book as an invitation to answer the above questions, and at least for
For once, without relying on fruitless rhetoric, we can connect moral principles with
Examine Islamic rulings. This book is based on reliable Islamic sources,
Sources that Muslims themselves believe in and from which they derive the rulings of Sharia
They extract. Therefore, it is up to you to judge whether this religion is based on the principles of
Do you see your morality and human dignity in agreement or not?

Ali Ranjbar May 2012




7

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




8

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




Chapter One
Why is the biography of Muhammad relevant now?
Does it have?

* How the slogan "Islam is a religion of peace" is still America's political line.
* Muslims' Introduction to Muhammad: Are They Talking About One Person?
* Why is it important to know what Muhammad was like?
* Why is this book dangerous?



Is Islam a religion of peace and why is this issue important?
Five years after the declaration of war on terror, we still hear from the general public that
Islam is the religion of peace. Today it is also common to use this phrase with reference to
To violent activities carried out in the name of Islam, to curse or
They mock. It is assumed that a small minority of extremists of this religion
They have confiscated it in their own name, but the Muslim Mujahideen are fighting for the elections in Palestine and
Elsewhere, the constitutions of Iraq and Afghanistan, backed by the US, are based on Sharia.
and incorporates Islamic rulings (which include the death penalty for those who
It is possible that they will convert to Christianity (and make it the supreme law of that country).


9

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The vast majority of peace-loving Muslims are also a sign of resistance to
Or they do not show any condemnation of the Islamic Jihad in whose name they fight.
Providing evidence that jihadist violence is real among Muslims
It is loved all over the world, but it has not caused Western authorities to change their views.
Reconsider Islam yourself. On April 10, 2006, President Bush
America by students graduating from the Paul H. Nietzsche School of
International Studies at Johns Hopkins University in Washington, D.C.
A student came up with a series of claims about Muhammad, the Prophet of Islam,
He said:
"Mr. President, today I have more general questions about America's work for
Democratizing the rest of the world. Many people are disappointed with America's efforts to
Democratizing the world, especially the nations of the Middle East, is an imposition or attack on sovereignty.
The nationalists know. Considering that in fact it was Muhammad the Prophet who
He established the world's first constitution - I am grateful for what he did for the city.
I am referring to Medina - and his life and principles are explained in this constitution.
He is known as a champion of the welfare of women, children, and the poor, and someone who is respected among his people.
He lived with equality and resolved conflicts between warring families in Arabia.
He divided, gave every man and woman the equal right to vote, for all religions.
Respectfully, I wonder how your recent study group went.
The American Institute for Peace uses such striking similarities to create a
A new relationship with Iraqis and educating Americans about democratic principles
"Don't you use the word 'naf' in Islam?"
The President also generously accepted this portrayal of Muhammad as correct.
Did:



10

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"I'm not telling countries to look at us and act like us, but
I say give your people a chance to be free. And I think
It is necessary for America to lead this issue. I think this
It is vital for our future that people, and in this case the Middle East, live in freedom.
Let's encourage. As you said, this is necessarily contrary to what Muhammad
1
The Prophet said no."


Muhammads interacting with each other
It is rare to find a Muslim country where Muhammad is respected and
Freedom and democracy were encouraged and women were given equal rights. However,
Now the image of Muhammad as the hero of these values is only a questionable invention.
The president is not. Muslim writer Farida Khanum calls Mohammad a tolerant man,
It depicts a gentle and loving image:
"His heart was filled with love for all humanity of every class, creed, and color."
Once he advised his fellow students to be kind to everyone.
"People should respect you as their brothers and sisters," he added.
"You are all descendants of Adam, and Adam was born of dust."
All of this tells us what knowledge Muhammad wanted to instill in man.
His mission was to make people understand that all of them (even though they were
Different countries come with different skin color, language, clothing, and culture.
They are different from each other (they need each other). Therefore, a worthy relationship can only be
When it is established among all people that they consider each other as sisters and brothers
Observe. Then the true feeling of love and respect for the whole world will rule.
2.
It will be.



11

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Islamic apologists and contemporary academics also propagate the same notion.
Islamic scholar Karl Ernst says: "In all narrations, Muhammad
He was a beloved person because of his trustworthiness. 3" Safi al-Rahman
Al-Mubarak Kapoor, whose biography of Muhammad, Arahiq-ul-Makhtum, was awarded
The first international competition for the life of Muhammad was held in
In 1979, he wrote in Mecca that "the Prophet combined the perfection of his creation and the perfection of his behavior."
He combined... The Prophet was the most truthful, wisest, and most just in speech.
4
"He is the most honest of all."
Abraham Hooper of the Council on American-Islamic Relations also echoed this sentiment (organizational
who says he wants to increase understanding of Islam, encourage dialogue, and
Protect civil liberties and empower American Muslims.
Muslims during the riots over Muhammad cartoons in early 2006.
5
He encourages them to follow the example of Muhammad.
"Do not repay those who have wronged you, but forgive and
Be kind. (Sahih Bukhari) This is a description of Muhammad, the Prophet of Islam.
A summary of how he responded to personal attacks and abuses.
He replied. Islamic narrations have examples where the Prophet took the opportunity to take revenge.
There is a way to get rid of someone who has attacked you, but you should avoid doing so.
It has been done... In the same way, we Muslims must take a step back and
6
"Let's ask ourselves, what would Muhammad do if he were in our place?"

But the international riots and killings that Muslims have committed because of these cartoons
committed) which is seen as revenge for the so-called insult to Muhammad
(This shows that Hooper's view is by no means universally accepted among Muslims around the world.)
It is not accepted.

12

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Some Muslims use the example of Muhammad in exactly the opposite direction of what Hopper suggests.
They say, they use violence. Sheikh Omar Bakri Muhammad, public supporter
Osama bin Laden, who preached jihad in Britain for years until he was
He finally left the country due to the bombing in London on July 7, 2005.
He declared that Muhammad himself, if he were alive, would have wanted cartoonists to
"They will die": Now everyone, Muslims or non-Muslims, has joined this attack and everyone
They condemn cartoonists and cartoons. But in Islam, God and the Prophet of God
He said that anyone who attacks Muhammad should be punished and executed. This person
He should be tried and if proven guilty, he should be executed. 7" Jihad Group
An Anglophile named Al-Gharabah, successor to the Al-Muhajirun Bakri Organization, explanations
He published a parable that used events in Muhammad's life to justify his position.
It indicates:

"In the time of Muhammad, the Messenger of Allah, there were 8 people who did not respect him and
They were insulted. With these people in the past and throughout the history of Islam,
Madara has not behaved in a tolerant manner, but has been dealt with in accordance with the provisions of Sharia.
In summary, after these events, people knew that insulting the Prophet was not an act of God.
Which could easily be done and in this case you will be killed. This is something that
9
"It seems like many people have forgotten that these days."

In April 2006, the Mujahideen Council, led by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, who
Later, the leader of Al-Qaeda in Iraq announced that he had killed a Christian in Mosul.
And because "this filthy crusader had insulted the Holy Prophet 10". A terrorist
The real name of a perpetrator in the 2002 Bali bombing also made similar statements.
Had:

13

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad


"You who still have a trace of faith in your hearts, have you forgotten?"
You are commanded to kill the infidels and enemies of Islam, and this is an act that will be rewarded by Allah.
Everything is higher... Are you following the example of Muhammad, the Prophet of Islam, and the Rightly Guided Caliphs?
Do you not know that killing the infidels was one of their main actions, and the Prophet 77
"He has fought for ten years as the leader of the Islamic Ummah in Medina."
11




Most Islamic scholars would claim that a true believer does not
He has misrepresented and misrepresented the prophet. Karen Armstrong in
His biography of Muhammad indicates that the terrorists of the eleven
September "They had Muhammad in mind when they planned to destroy the plane on board it."
"They were told in the documents they found in their suitcases that
The Prophet was always cheerful. But Armstrong continues:
"The idea that everything Muhammad did was good and in his name."
The September 11 massacre is a terrible thing, because I have lived this life
I am trying to show that Muhammad spent most of his time just stopping this.
The kind of mass murder that Muhammad has committed...he abandoned violence and was courageous in this matter.
He gave it to the cause and inspired the policy of nonviolence that Gandhi valued in his work.
12
"It was a part."

Why is Muhammad important?


What was Muhammad really like? This question becomes more important today because if he really was
If he is a man of peace, it is reasonable to hope that his example will help us.


14

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The religious reform efforts in the Islamic world that ultimately came under the influence of the terrorists
A jihadist is sitting back. If he is truly a hero of democracy and equality between men and women,
It would be beneficial to encourage Muslims to imitate this personality.
Muslims consider him the best role model for human behavior, so he can
He worked on this ideal in the Islamic world. But if jihadist terrorists
They resort to this model to justify their actions, so the Taliban reform
Islam needs a rethinking, but with respect for Muhammad's place in
Convert to Islam – something that is much more difficult to do.
Western non-Muslims also need to know this answer so that we can take a policy stance.
Let's plan the general plan accordingly. The common distinction between Islam and Islamism that
It has been accepted by the majority without any reason, and is based on this idea.
That there is an original core of Islam that does not remember war with non-Muslims.
But Islamism is known for imitating fascism and
Communism promotes a doctrine that has nothing to do with the true teachings of Islam. When
Seven Muslims were arrested in Canada in June 2006 on suspicion of planning attacks.
Terrorists arrested for attacks on Canada's parliament building and other sites, newspaper
The Ottawa Citizen quickly began reaffirming its liberal values:
"They brought the War on the West to two major American cities in 2001.
Then to Spain and England. In Holland, they butchered workers on the streets.
Australians in Bali were their victims. It is strange that they turned to
Canada has lasted this long.
Let us explain the pronoun "they". What we mean by them is
There are Islamists. Not Muslims, but Islamists. A Muslim is someone
He is one who practices the precepts of Islam, this great religion. He is an Islamist.



15

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
There is someone for whom Islam is not just a religion but a political ideology.
It is.
Islamists seek to make Islamic societies pure and free from violence.
To establish the most complete interpretation of Islam. Islamism is the voice of the apocalypse.
It contains another ideology in the third millennium, namely fascism. Islamism
13
"It is totalitarian, utopian, and violent, and like fascism, it is driven by demand."

Also, after the 2005 jihadist terrorist bombing in London,
Tony Blair, the Prime Minister at the time, declared: "We know that these people are doing this in the name of Islam."
They do, but we also know that the overwhelming majority of Muslims
Here and there, there are noble and law-abiding people who are just as
14
"Our people are disgusted by this type of terrorism."
England, like other European countries, is particularly concerned about this issue in politics.
Immigration itself has opened a large account. Of course, even if the jihadists are
Muhammad is right, this does not mean that all or even most Muslims
They don't want to be law-abiding and anti-terrorism. In Islam, like any other religion,
There is another, a spectrum of beliefs, knowledge, and prejudices. Since one person considers himself
Muslims want to know how much he knows about the Quran and life.
Muhammad has knowledge. This is especially true of Islam because Islam
It is primarily an Arabic religion; Muslims are required to pray daily and recite the Quran in Arabic.
They learn that it is the language of Allah. Prayer to Allah is not acceptable in any language other than Arabic. Because
Most Muslims today are not Arabic-speaking, and the Quran was written in seventh-century Arabic.
(It is classic and difficult.) And most English translators have the same problem with the language.
(They have the King James Bible.) So many Muslims, even those who are in



16

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Faith itself is serious, only a blind awareness of what the text of the Quran actually says.
They have.
Despite the difficulties, these texts can be read and understood. When
Jihadists point to the example of Muhammad to justify violence, if Muslims
Peace lovers should not have their hands tied anywhere, so they can fight against the jihadists who
They present themselves as expounders of pure Islam and true faith, modeled after Muhammad.
They will be vulnerable.
It is clear from the Sunnah and the Quran that the Prophet is a great model of behavior for Muslims in
His importance to hundreds of millions of Muslims around the world is reflected in the Quran,
The Holy Book of Muslims, has roots. His summary is Aswat Hasna (33:21). He
Exalted is He (68:4). And whoever obeys the Messenger has obeyed Allah.
(4:80) The Quran repeatedly tells Muslims to obey Allah and His Messenger.
Although the Muslim holy book clearly states that Muhammad was a prophet,
(48:2; 80:1-12). It also repeatedly calls upon Muslims to obey Muhammad.
He will call you) ;3:32; 3:132; 4:13; 4:59; 4:69; 5:92; 8:1; 8:20; 8:46
;9:71; 24:47; 24:51; 24:52; 24:54; 24:56; 33:33; 47:33; 49:14
(58:13; 64:12)
Every devout Muslim will take this seriously. Moqtadar Khan from the Center for the Study of
Islam and Democracy explains:
"No religious leader has had as much influence over his followers as Muhammad, the Prophet of Islam."
...and Muhammad, as the last prophet of God, when the revelation (the Quran) was revealed to him
He became a beneficiary of the position. So that his actions, words, and even silence
Muhammad (What He Saw and Forbade) An Independent Source for Islamic Rulings
Muslims, as part of their religious duties, obey not only the Prophet



17

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They imitated him in every aspect of life. Therefore, Muhammad also
15
"He is the messenger and source of divine judgment."
Both reformist Muslims and bloodthirsty jihadists use this model to justify their actions.
Their actions are being used to address the question of which group will be in charge in the future.
will find and who will become the leader of the Islamic world (which is a choice between
Religious revival or growing hostility towards America and the West (mainly by
Muhammad will be determined and what he was like according to Islamic texts.
By examining Islamic texts and what these texts say about the prophet, the founder of this religion
They have said, we can know something about Muhammad, even if it is a research for
Muhammad is not historical, just as it is still a big problem for Jesus.
There is history. The identity, words, and actual deeds of the Prophet of Islam are subjects.
which have only been studied a little by researchers due to limited resources.
Reliable initial, Muslim resistance to any challenge regarding
It is accepted Islamic beliefs, even if these issues are based on principles.
be a non-controversial study. Although critics of the Bible have acted freely and
They have had a great influence in the Christian and post-Christian West, as well as in the Islamic world.
There are practically no studies. There are few researchers working in this field.
have threatened, such as Christoph Luxenberg
They are dead and have published their works under pseudonyms.
But in the end, Mohammad Tarikhi's research, despite its attractiveness and importance, is something
It is not to determine the course of Islam in the coming decades. Because such research
It will most likely not find a significant audience in the Islamic world. But something
What is certainly impressive is the examination of Muhammad's personality in the same way that
The Quran and other Islamic sources, especially the Hadith, have revealed the Prophet's tradition.
It has determined Islamic action and piety.

18

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
This battle has already begun. Members of jihadist groups have previously claimed
Who confirmed their Hadith and Quran in an effort to attract the attention of cultural Muslims
Radical Muslims are deeply infiltrating peaceful Muslim communities.
brought and preached a violent Islam as "the Islam of the Prophet Muhammad" and
Muslims are commanded to fully adhere to their religion. And this full adherence
The necessity of war against non-Muslims in order to establish a hegemonic social order
It also becomes Islamic 16. This conquest is not only against the Quran and other key texts
Islam is centered on but also based on the personality of Muhammad.


Fake and polite stories are useless.


Many politicians and thinkers intend to pursue such research.
They don't, because the consequences could be terrible. If terrorists have a religion
They have not confiscated the peacemaker as desired, if they have not destroyed the essence of Islam.
And, what will happen then? Do you want to witness a world war? Do you
Do you want America to join the fifty-seven countries of the Organization of the Islamic Conference?
See involved? One prominent conservative political analyst even claimed that
"Although the notion that Islam is a polite fiction is important, it is nonetheless important.
Influential Muslims believe in this story and it is important that they are involved in the struggle.
Muslims should not sit on a chair to define themselves. We should sit on a chair instead of a chair.
We should pay attention to them, as much as we can, from people like King Abdullah.
Let's support the King of Jordan, who has carried out anti-terrorist measures or
Ayatollah Sistani, who has always condemned terrorism. Theological rulings
Whatever Islam may be, religious cultures have taken on different hues over time.
Some people wonder how Christianity was three hundred years ago.

19

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Could a religion be peaceful when rival Christian princes ruled?
17
They fought with each other over the issue of faith."
The difference between Islam and Christianity is that no Christian can show
Does it mean that Jesus, the prophet of peace, taught violence or something contradictory to this?
His saying is, "He who lives by the sword will die by the sword."
So humans should return their other species for slapping and
"Caesar shall render to Caesar what is Caesar's." But if Muhammad himself were to resort to violence,
He taught, if he taught a lesson that requires a holy war against the infidels,
If Muhammad combined religion and government, then the mujahideen everywhere
They don't imitate the world or anything else. They also use it to justify their actions.
They believe that they are following the true teachings of Muhammad. If the truth is bitter,
There is no reason to choose unreality and fake stories.
If the teachings and life of Muhammad himself are the source of jihadist violence, then governments
It does not force Islam to fight America. Rather, the policies of
It allows for greater clarity and makes sincere reform in Islam possible.
It has the advantage of being based on facts.


The purpose of this book


This book is not a biography of the Prophet of Islam, although the general outlines
It charts the path of his life and prophetic mission. Above all, this book
It examines some aspects of his life that non-Muslims find questionable.
Yaband and Amrozeh are used by Muslims to justify violence or illegal behavior.
Humanity and human dignity are exploited. Western readers will want to know why.
Moderate Muslims (or Western rulers and legal authorities who have such hopes)

20

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Compared to jihadist movements in the Islamic world, they are weak and marginal.
They will also want to know why Muslims are so compelled to follow the example of Muhammad.
They know why and this model can be used for completely different applications.
Along the way, I will show how public views on
Muhammad and Islam in the English-speaking world in particular and in the West in general
It has taken shape, and I will expose some of their prejudices in this shaping.


Why didn't I want to write this book?


In early 2006, Muslim anger around the world erupted over cartoons
The Danish celebrity of Mohammad Furan Kard. The cartoons themselves are more than what they are.
American newspaper about the president, election candidates and more
The personalities were milder. Their number was twelve in total, 9
Two of them are completely neutral, while three of them make a connection between Islam and violence.
Although the idea of rioting for the sake of cartoons was popular with non-Muslims
It's funny, this crisis is leading to diplomatic responses, discussions within the organization.
Nations, international boycotts, and threats against innocent businessmen and embassy personnel.
I have listed just a few examples of the peak of the cartoon crisis below:
* Gaza: In late January, armed men took over a European Union office.
They did and apologized to Denmark and Norway (the cartoons were also reprinted in Norway).
(18) The next day, demonstrations with the slogan "War with Denmark, death to
"Denmark" was held and Danish flags were burned. The leader of Islamic Jihad,
Nafez Azzam said: "We feel anger at the continuous attacks on Islam and the Prophet of Islam."
We have a lot and we want the Danish government to make a clear and explicit apology for
19
"This must be a mistake."

21

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
*Arab interior ministers declared at a meeting in Tunis that "We ask the authorities
We demand that Denmark take the necessary measures to punish those responsible for this damage.
20
"They should take action to prevent it from happening again."
* Libya and Saudi Arabia recalled their ambassadors from Copenhagen.
* In Saudi Arabia, the angry mob of two employees of a Danish company
They beat up Arla Foods in the name of...
* Arla Foods was boycotted throughout the Islamic world - a boycott that authorities
21
Muslims around the world encouraged it.
* After the fatwa was issued regarding the publication of the cartoons, Danish military groups
They were on standby and the Iraqi Foreign Minister, Hoshyar Zibari, was alert.
22
He complained to the Danish embassy in Baghdad.
These incidents prompted diplomatic protests from the Muslim World League, the Organization of the Islamic Conference,
He pursued Islamic and other organizations; there was opposition in Kashmir, from
Pakistan received death threats and many more incidents followed. 23. Even
Bill Clinton stepped in and shouted that "these cartoons are an insult to Islam."
"And these grievances are justified." So what are we doing now? ...prejudices.
"Should we replace anti-Semitism with anti-Islamic bigotry?" 24 Of course not, but the question
He is not addressing the main issue. The cartoon represents anti-Islamic bigotry.
They were not: Criticism of Muhammad or even Islam should not be equated with anti-Semitism. Islam is a
It is not race; the problems with it are not the product of manufactured fear and fabricated stories.
Rather, they come from ideology and facts. Facts that are repeatedly denied by Muslims.
All over the world, when it comes to the name of Islam and the justification of violence with its teachings,
They are emphasized. As some cartoons show, between the lessons
There is a connection between Muhammad's teachings and Islamic violence, which is a reality that
Karat by Osama bin Laden, Ayman al-Zawahri, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, Omar Bakri,

22

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Abu Hamza, Abu Bakr Bashir, and many other Mujahideen have been confirmed. Are all of these
Have the Prophets and many others misinterpreted the teachings of Muhammad and Islam?
The question, which is very vital, is unrelated to the moral judgment of cartoons.
The reality is that these and other jihadist terrorists claim to be from
Muhammad's example and words are influential. Some of the cartoons draw attention to this reality.
Do it.
Ultimately, the cartoon issue is a freedom of expression issue. The cartoon debate
It is indicative of a rift between the Islamic world and the post-Christian West over freedom of expression.
Perhaps the West, in its adherence to the idols of tolerance, multiculturalism, and pluralism, is free
Freedom of expression, freedom.
Insulting also includes mockery. If it were not so, there would be no freedom at all.
No: Speech that does not offend anyone does not necessarily need to be protected by law.
Exception: The act of declaring a person or ideology beyond critical or even
Mocking is the replacement of freedom of expression with ideological gagging. It seems
It seems that Westerners should respect freedom of speech when discussing disrespect for Christianity.
They understand easily, or even when discussing Andre Serrano's Piss Christ or
The excrement of Chris Ophelia and pornography of the Holy Mary. But this view
There is no clear statement about freedom in the case of Islam.
But they have to get this done. The chaos of cartoons, no matter how much they are inside
It may seem trivial and foolish, but it is an even more serious challenge to the concepts
The West became a beacon of pluralism and freedom of expression. The first newspaper to publish these cartoons was
Jyllands-Posten was published by Anders Fogh Rasmussen, and was the first Prime Minister of Denmark.
Rasmussen only mentioned the point that if Muslims feel
They have been insulted, there is cause for concern, and this was not intentional. But progress
The request of Muslims and the punishment of those responsible at the request of Arab interior ministers or

23

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Cartoons infringe human rights, claims Belgian imam
It continued. Even the European Union blamed the Danes for the destructive effects of this conflict.
He criticized him, regardless of the fact that placing Muhammad and Islam beyond criticism and
Even satire is as dangerous to a free society as the establishment of a leader.
The beloved North Korea or dialectical materialism beyond criticism will be like this. In
This was truly a death for a free society.
The Organization of the Islamic Conference decided at a meeting in Mecca in December 2005.
It has been suggested that cartoons serve as a lesson on the dangers of secularism.
The West used it. The Muslim anger was not spontaneous, but quickly
Islam spread throughout the world. 25 At least 139 people were killed in these clashes.
were killed and 823 people were injured in the riots, and the cartoonists are now in
26
They are threatened with death.


Death to the blasphemers.


The riot over cartoons was not an isolated incident. In September 2004, the film
Dutch artist Theo van Gogh's "Surrender" aired on Dutch television
Gone is a former Muslim member of the Dutch parliament who still has Islamic beliefs.
In the name of Ayan Hirsi, he considered this film an insult to Muslim women because of the images
It shows battered women wearing lace robes with bare breasts.
Covered with verses from the Quran written on their bodies. On November 2nd
In 2004, Van Gogh was shot dead on a street in Amsterdam.
Mahmoud Bouiri was killed. These Muslims were killed several times after killing Van Gogh.
A butcher knife had slit Van Gogh's throat, leaving behind verses from the Quran in a trail of blood.



24

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
and other Dutch figures who opposed Muslim immigration.
27
They are in Holland, he threatened.
This type of killing has been carried out frequently in the Islamic world. In 1947,
Islamic radicals killed an Iranian lawyer named Ahmad Kasravi in court,
Also in court, where he was defending himself against charges of attacking Islam.
Four years later, members of the same radical Islamic group, the Fedayeen al-Islam,
An Iranian minister named Haji Ali Razm Ara was executed after a fatwa was issued to kill him by
In 1992, Egyptian writer Faraj Fouda was assassinated by the clerics.
Muslims were killed for apostasy from Islam. Apostasy is another offense that
Islamic Sharia law has prescribed the death penalty for that. Fellow Fuda,
Nobel Prize winner Najib Mahfouz was stabbed in 1994 after being accused of blasphemy.
Khor. Under Pakistan's blasphemy law, many non-Muslims with the slightest evidence,
They have been arrested, tortured, and sentenced to death. And of course, the infamous fatwa to kill the Ayatollah.
Khomeini's criticism of the novelist Salman Rashdi is also worth mentioning.
Van Gogh undoubtedly intended the film "Surrender" to be provocative and even offensive.
Vincent van Gogh's nephew, in the past, also brought Jews and Christians together.
Anger had been widely criticized, leading to official complaints. Even Harsi was adamant.
"Criticism of Van Gogh was legitimate. But when someone criticizes him for his worldview,
He is dead, his wrongdoing has no place among the Arabs. This time we are fighting for rights.
We have stood firm. Otherwise, we have only supported the murderer and
We have accepted that there was good reason to kill this man."28



Defending freedom of expression



25

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The free world must stand firmly with Denmark and defend freedom of expression.
He did. But he didn't do this. After Van Gogh's murder, the free world should have known about freedom.
He should have defended the statement, but he didn't do this. Against intolerance and violence
Islamic, the West should have promoted its Christian and Jewish values and
It should have emphasized human dignity, from which freedom of speech and belief in the West emanates.
He took it. But he didn't do this.
We have lost our rights to freedom of expression and thought without defense.
That's why, after a period of hesitation and uncertainty about whether I should
I decided to write this book. I am aware of the risks it entails.
I am. But the issue of Muhammad (who he was, what he did, and what he believed in)
It is key to understanding today's global conflict with the mujahideen, and we must do something about it.
Let's do it.
This is a provocative topic and it can be deadly.
But I will report what Islamic sources say about Muhammad;
Sources that most Muslims consider authentic. And I will explain some of the underlying concepts.
I will discuss it. It is not necessary and it is not my intention to attack Muhammad.
Should I mock him, ridicule him, or satirize him, or anything other than a thorough analysis?
Let me write about what he said and did on some key issues. But in these cases
Muslims are boiling very quickly.
It is also for this reason why this book had to be written. Freedom of Research
And speech, the search for truth, should not be accompanied by violence or the acceptance of lies and
The propaganda that the enemies of freedom are spreading will be reduced to silence.
One thing is certain: if someone is not willing to take this risk, freedom of expression is
Soon it will be a memory of the past.



26

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
General notes


In writing this book, I have relied on Islamic sources for the life of Muhammad:
The first biography of Muhammad in the Islamic tradition, which is discussed in detail in the third chapter,
I will review it, as well as the English translations of the Quran by Abdullah.
(Yousef Ali and Muhammad Marmaduke Pictal have been completed.) Numbering of verses
The Quran is not standardized, so if you use another translation
Please keep in mind that the verses I mention may be several verses.
(In some names that are derived from
Translated Arabic may have some differences, sometimes the name
The person is pronounced by me in one way and by someone else in another way, in
I apologize for this confusion and have tried to resolve these differences.
I will reduce it as much as possible.
I have also referred to the God of Islam as Allah in all cases.
While the English translation of the life of Muhammad mentions the word of God,
Of course, the word of Allah does not belong solely to Islam and goes back to before it.
Arab-speaking Christians and Jews also used the word Allah. Of course.
The Quran claims that the God of Jews and Christians is one with the God of Muslims.
(20:46). But since the Islamic tradition considers Christian teaching as
Rejects the Trinity and the divinity of Jesus and considers Judaism to be a deviation from Islam.
It is reasonable to assume that, like many English-speaking Muslims, I am not familiar with the word
I hope I can use Allah to refer to the Islamic God in English.
This did not cause further confusion.




27

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




Chapter Two
In search of the real Muhammad in history


* Why can't the Quran be understood separately from the Hadith?
* Separating fact from fiction in hadith and why it is almost impossible.
* The best primary sources for details of Muhammad's life
* Why are the historical facts and the beliefs of Muslims about Muhammad not the same?



How can we truly know Muhammad?


Most non-Muslims in the West know almost nothing about the Prophet of Islam.
While even in the current non-Christian West, the whole story of Jesus Christ
It is also well known and many people can relate to the story of Gautama Buddha.
They will tell how he gained his sight while sitting under a tree.
However, Muhammad's personality remains vague and empty of meaning for most non-Muslims.
There is something left.

28

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Muslims often say that non-Muslims are ignorant because of their own lack of interest.
It is because they know nothing about Muhammad, and not because of a lack of information.
Islamic preachers generally claim that we can do many things.
Let's learn about Muhammad. Moqtadar Khan from the Center for Islamic and Democratic Studies from
A general perception was speaking when he explicitly declared: "One aspect
The extraordinary thing about Muhammad's life is that his entire life is recorded in history.
The details of his life are available to us. The life and times of no other personality
No other religious figure has been recorded as such as Muhammad. 1 This historian
It was the Frenchman Ernest Renon who first wrote in 1851 that the life of Muhammad was
It has been historically recorded.


                                                                   Quran


The Quran contains a large amount of information about specific events in the life of this prophet.
But there is no continuous narrative and these events are often incomplete and
They are retold in a figurative way, as if the audience is supposed to have read the story beforehand.
According to the traditional Muslim view, Allah revealed every word of the Quran to the Prophet Muhammad.
It was revealed through the angel Gabriel. According to Islamic traditions, the Quran is a copy of
It is the complete text of an eternal book called Umm al-Kitab, which exists forever with God.
This book was revealed piece by piece by Gabriel to Muhammad over a period of twenty-three years.
His prophetic period has been passed down to him.
The Quran is written as if it were spoken from the mouth of Allah. But sometimes
Muhammad seems to have slipped up on this point: in Surah 48:27
For example, there is this phrase: "If Allah wills...which is for the first person of Allah."
(It is strange.) He often addresses Muhammad directly and frequently in

29

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Various topics tell him what to say. Allah is for Muslims through
Muhammad is legitimate and tells them that Islamic commands and rulings
"They ask you about the monthly cycle of women: Say: 'How should they be?'"
It is a pain, so keep away from women during their menstruation and tell them
Do not come near until they are cleansed. And when they were cleansed, they went from the place where God had commanded them.
"Mix it with them" (2:222).
But often the subject under discussion is not so explicit. Reciting the Quran is often
Things like listening to a conversation between two people are just
Few people know these two people. When defenders of Islam say that they are terrorists,
The Muslims do not consider the revelation of the Quran in their ruling on jihad, they themselves have this point
They ignore that the Quran itself often provides little background on the subject.
He often refers to people and events without bothering himself.
Say what the topic is. For example, the first five verses of Surah 66 of the Quran.
Say:
"O Prophet, why do you, for the pleasure of your wives, do what God has made lawful for you?"
Do you forbid it? God is Forgiving. Indeed, God is the One Who takes care of the way.
He has decreed your oaths, and He is the Knowing, the Wise. And as a messenger with a
He told his wife a secret story, and as soon as she told it to another woman, God
Inform the Prophet about it. The Prophet acknowledged some of it and rejected some of it.
He presented the other one and told the woman what he wanted. The woman said, "Who is this?"
Did you inform me? The Prophet said, "The All-Knowing One informed me." By God.
Repent, for your hearts have deviated. If you help one another against him,
God Himself is the guardian of Muhammad, and so are Gabriel and the righteous believers, and even the angels.
And also, O friend. If the Prophet divorces you, it is hoped that his God will



30

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Who is better than you in a wife who is a believer, obedient, repentant, fasting, and virgin?
"He will compensate."

It is impossible to understand from these verses what God intended for Muhammad.
How did Muhammad try to make his wife share his wife's property or under what circumstances?
What are the conditions under which Allah permits breaking an oath? Or what secret has been revealed that Allah
Later, he told Muhammad, or even one of Muhammad's wives, that he was a warning.
They were told not to conspire against Muhammad and then threatened with divorce.
All these verses and many other verses like these are for anyone who is directly
It is completely unclear whether that incident was not involved.
But Islamic tradition is full of stories – and in this case, a Sadr Muslim.
Islam in the name of Abdullah bin Abbas, from the Caliphate of Umar, Muhammad's successor and second
The Caliph of the Islamic Ummah asks about these verses. During the Hajj, Abdullah asked:
Omar asks, "O leader of the believers, these two ladies are the wives of Muhammad."
"Who were those whom Allah asked to repent?"
Umar replied, "O Ibn Abbas, I am surprised by your question. They are Aisha and
"They were Hafsa." According to Omar, Hafsa was one of Muhammad's wives, and she was his wife.
Being rude in response made him angry. Then when Umar knew that Muhammad
He had divorced both of his wives, he wasn't surprised: "Hafsa is a prostitute!"
"One day this will happen."
Omar goes to Muhammad, who at first refuses to meet him, and then
"I greeted him and while he was waiting, he said, 'I will come to you.'"
I was standing and I said, "Have you divorced your wife?" He looked at me.
"And he answered in the negative." Then Omar complained that his wife was under the influence of some
Women who had recently converted to Islam had disobeyed. Umar narrated that Muhammad

31

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
He smiled and then Omar said that he had told Hafsa that he would tell Muhammad.
Don't be rude; then Umar told Aisha, Muhammad's wife, that she would not be punished for this incident.
She came out only because she was more beautiful and Mohammad gave her more love.
It has.
Omar explains to Aisha that "Muhammad died because of the secret that Hafsa told him."
Aisha had not avoided her husband, and he said that it was because of anger.
Being away from his wives for a month, he did not go to them, then when Allah
He advises Muhammad, and when twenty-nine days have passed, the Prophet
2
"He goes to Aisha for the first time."
But Omar does not reveal Hafsa's secret. According to some religious scholars, this Hafsa
It is said that Muhammad was sleeping with his mistress, Mary Ghabtiya, a slave girl from Egypt.
which was given to Muhammad as a gift by a Byzantine official (Ghaflgir)
He has done so, and on the day he was supposed to spend with Hafsa. Muhammad said that he
Mari stayed away and asked Hafsa to keep the matter a secret, but Hafsa refused.
He tells the secret to Aisha. Then Allah comes with a revelation and divorces them both.
Surah 66 threatens and warns Muhammad against the oath he had taken to avoid the snake.
Stay away from it and it will set you free. 3 But another narration explains something completely different.
Give. Aisha explains that:
"Muhammad used to spend a long time with Zainab bint Jahsh (a
(another of Muhammad's wives) stayed and drank honey in his house. Then Hafsa and
I have decided that if a prophet comes to any of us, he should call himself Muhammad.
Say that I smell the sweet scent of turpentine (a type of gum) in you.
Have you eaten gum? Then the Prophet met one of them and he also
He said to Muhammad. Muhammad replied, "No, I have some honey in my house."
I have tasted the wine of the daughter of the king, but I will never drink it again. Then this verse

32

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
It was revealed: O Prophet, why do you forbid what Allah has made lawful for you?
4
"Kenny".
In this scenario, the revelation of Surah 66 is only due to jealousy of the spouses or perhaps the evil self.
Muhammad is related and swears not to eat honey. In this case, what Muhammad
He had forbidden it and Allah made it lawful for him. It was honey. That is, Muhammad Sa'i
He tried to appease his wife by promising to release the honey, and Allah granted him permission.
Who breaks this oath and threatens his wife with divorce?
In another hadith, Umar adds to this interpretation of these verses: "Once
Muhammad's wives were united against him, and I told them that he could
"Divorce all of you, and God will give you better wives in your place."
5
Then he recited the same verse 66 that I had mentioned.
Apart from the issue of the nature of a divine revelation regarding the health of Muhammad's mouth or
The quarrels and jealousy of his wife are clear from any of the interpretations of the narrations.
For these verses, Islam cannot derive anything from the text of the Quran alone.
To conclude.


                                                                hadith


Perhaps it is in response to the fragmentation of the contents of the Quranic narratives that Muslims
Sadrasalam introduces two main sources for understanding the background of the Quran:
Tafseer (explanation of the Quran) and Hadith, i.e. the traditions of the Prophet Muhammad and
An important part of these hadiths are the interpretation of the Quran itself. This is based on the verses of the Quran.
It is interesting to note that in this chapter, whether these verses can be applied to the modern era
The use of the word is important. For example, one of the hadiths recounts a situation in which
The Quranic text rebukes Muslims who are not willing to fight.

33

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"Believers, do not live with those who strive with their lives and wealth in the way of God."
They are not equal. God has given them a degree of advantage over those who live at home, and
"To each has He promised a good reward" (4:95).
Here, in Muhammad's recitation, the blind man speaks, "Oh Messenger!
"O God! If I had the power, I would certainly join the jihad."
The basis of "Allah sent revelation to His Messenger" and in another section, the blind companions of the Prophet
It removes from conviction "except for those who are incapacitated".
6
Men, women, and children who are helpless and find no way out (4:98)
The Prophet's tradition or example, a large part of which is from the hadiths, is the second source.
It is for the interpretation of Muslims and contains a huge amount of information about Muhammad.
It is tradition that makes the laws of Islamic society very different from those of other societies.
Tradition is so important in Islamic thought that, according to Islamic scholars,
Ahmad Yon Denffer (Among Islamic scholars, there is a consensus
There is a saying that the content of the Sunnah, like the Quran, is from God. Therefore, they are Sunnah.
7
"They have described it as a form of revelation and inspiration."

From the perspective of fourteen hundred years later, it is almost impossible to say with certainty.
Which of this vast amount of information is reliable and which is not? Muslims
They themselves acknowledge that there are many fabricated hadiths that are used to justify
The views or practices of a particular sect in the early days of Islam from the perspective of Muhammad
This is what the historical Muhammad actually said and did.
It makes it insoluble. But this does not mean that the hadith is objective for Muslims.
Several Muslims in the early days of Islam reacted to the unrest
who have fabricated hadiths, a collection of the Prophet's life and deeds that
They collected more or less definitive and reliable 8. In the ninth century, several

34

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Islamic scholars have compiled the hadiths of the Islamic world about Muhammad and
Then they tried to sift out what was true from what was false. Imam
Muhammad ibn Ismail al-Bukhari (810-870) is the most authoritative and influential of the
He compiled the hadiths under the name of Sahih al-Bukhari. It is said that he
He has collected one hundred thousand hadiths. He has carefully examined them and tried to
You can trace each one in a chain of transmission all the way back to Muhammad himself.
Finally, he separated and published about two thousand hadiths as authentic hadiths.
If we consider the different versions of the hadiths, their number is more than seven thousand.
It will increase.
Sahih al-Bukhari alone in an Arabic-English edition in Saudi Arabia
It amounts to 9 volumes. In addition to providing the background for a number of
Many of the Quranic texts give the reader a glimpse into Muhammad's private life.
His wisdom and examples cover a wide range of topics, such as clarity,
Conditions of prayer and supplication, funeral ceremonies, almsgiving, Hajj, fasting, giving and exchanging goods
Loans, mortgages, wills, marriage, divorce, inheritance laws, jihad and punishments.
Apostates, blood money, and many other things, including even dream interpretation.
Sahih al-Bukhari is only one of six separate collections that Muslims generally read.
They consider it valuable. Among these six groups, the one called Sahih Al-Sta is
It is possible that the collection of hadiths is authentic, and it can be mentioned from Sahih Muslim that
Collected by Muslim ibn al-Hajjaj al-Aqshairi (821-875). Other
The books have less credibility than Bukhari and Muslim, but are still highly respected.
They are: Sunan Abu Dawud by Abu Dawud al-Sajjatani (d. 888), Sunan Ibn
Maje by Mohammad bin Maje, (d 896) Sunan al-Tirmidhi by Mohammad Tirmidhi
        ) (893-824) and Sunan Al-Nusri by Ahmad Ibn Shuaib Nasri (d 915)



35

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Also, other books of hadith, although they are not among the authentic ones,
They are highly respected, including the book written by Imam Malik. Imam
Malik (801-715) was the most important of all the hadith collectors during his lifetime.
Muhammad is closer, he was born eighty years after Muhammad's death.
In Islam, the study of hadith is a fascinating and complex science. Scholars of the Sunnah
They give different grades such as flawless, good, weak, and fake. If a
Whether the hadith is in one of the books of Bukhari or Muslim, Muslim scholars give it great credibility.
They believe in it, and if it is in both, its validity is almost certain.
At least from the perspective of a traditional Muslim. This is not just the perspective of Muslim scholars.
Every Muslim: He looks at Bukhari and Muslim as prominent sources.
An Islamic website that assures readers that
Nothing on this site is against the established principles of Islamic law, this belief
The majority of Muslims conclude: that Sahih al-Bukhari is the most reliable source.
And along with Sahih Muslim, out of the three hundred thousand hadiths evaluated by Muslim,
Only about four thousand, divided into forty-two books, in its entirety,
9
They have the strongest possible credibility.
Bukhari and Muslim, and to a lesser extent, the other collections of authentic hadiths,
The golden standard for hadith remains. Sahih Muslim, English translator,
Abdul Hamid Siddiqui explains that the hadiths "which are considered absolutely authentic"
"are included in this compilation" and that "even between these two, Bukhari
10
"He has a better position compared to Muslims."


                                                          Prophet's life




36

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Another source is the biography or biography of Muhammad. The biography, along with the Hadith and the Quran,
They constitute the Islamic tradition. The first detailed biography of the Prophet of Islam to
It did not appear until one hundred and fifty years after his death. The first commentary on the Hadith of Muhammad,
Muhammad ibn Ishaq ibn Yasir, commonly known as Ibn Ishaq (704-773)
It is known. Although many fragments of the biography are found in other sources and not
It exists only in the Quran, the biography of the Prophet of Allah by Ibn Ishaq, the first attempt to
It is to provide a continuous narrative of the life of Muhammad.
Unfortunately, the original form of this book has been lost to history. Only one copy
It was shortened and edited by Ibn Hisham in the year 834, six years after the
After Ben Ishaq in the past, it is available or the pieces that were made by others
Early Muslim writers quoted from this book, including Muhammad ibn Jarir.
Tabari (839-923). Ibn Hisham explains that in his version
He has removed topics from the Book of Isaac that were unpublished, topics
Which makes some people worried and such reports as
Al-Abka'i told me that it cannot be accepted as authentic. 11. Some of these issues
Unpublished Malik ibn Anas (715-801), who himself was a collector of authentic hadiths.
He had the intention of calling Ibn Ishaq an apostate and complained that this
The current commentary is "The Tradition According to the Opinion of the Jews." Malek and Ibn
Isaac later reconciled with each other and other Islamic scholars during the
The first to confirm the validity of this modern interpretation is the Muslims who have been writing for years.
He wrote to him, explaining that "none of the people of Medina would
"They were not suspicious and did not remember him with contempt"; also, Asr Ibn Ishaq,
12
Loyal to tradition.
Muslims generally consider Ibn Ishaq's work to be authentic based on this fact.
The hatred that some early Muslims, such as Malik, felt towards him,

37

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
This does not mean that its historical content is unreliable, but rather that
His writings on Islamic law were unpopular. He was suspected of
Who transmitted the Sharia rulings through incomplete and insufficient chains of narrators
(Although he did not mention such chains of events for his historical views.)
(He has also been accused by Shiite and Sunni sects.)
However, the great Islamic jurist, Ahmad ibn Hanbal (780-855), held the prevailing view
He summarized about him: "In matters that occurred in Maghazi (Army)
Nazami Muhammad (What Ibn Ishaq said can be confirmed, but in the case of
"The jurisprudential issues require further confirmation." 13 In other words, he is a good source.
It is for history but not jurisprudence.
Despite this, Muhammad's life was not so modestly portrayed by Ibn Ishaq.
It is like the dates of the prophets whose accuracy is questionable. The current commentary of Muhammad is a
Muslims believed and tried to portray Muhammad as a great personality.
Draw a picture. He recounts an incident in which a woman captured a man who
Muhammad had ordered to kill him, but Sham poisoned Muhammad. According to Ibn
Isaac, the Prophet, had an unseen knowledge of the woman's actions; he spat out the poisoned meat.
"This bone tells me it's poisonous," he says. 14. In a
In another situation, Muhammad's men were digging a large trench for battle, which
They were eating a huge rock that no one could move. The Prophet of Water
He puts his mouth in water and pours it on the stone. As a result of this action, the stone
It becomes as soft as a soft stone and is useful against shovels and picks.
15
"There was no resistance."
Whatever Ibn Ishaq's reputation as a historian, most of the images he painted of Muhammad are
The information we have has reached the general awareness of Muslims over the centuries. Often
Events in the life of the Prophet of Islam, including those that are important in the history of Islam,

38

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They have no other source; later, Islamic historians' analyses focused solely on Ibn Ishaq.
It deepens. He is respected by Muslims to this day and is still read.
Muslim booksellers still have copies of Ibn Ishaq's commentary on the
Muhammad is sold among more modern analyses of Muhammad 16. Modern historians
Muslims praise Ibn Ishaq's accuracy: Sefabad Al-Akram of the Pakistan Army
In the commentary of Khalid ibn al-Walid (a contemporary of Muhammad), who is known as the sword
Allah is known, He explains that
"Ibn Hisham's commentary on the pioneering work of Muhammad ibn Ishaq on the life of the Messenger of Allah,
It is extremely precious... Muhammad ibn Ishaq (who was born in 150 or 151 AH)
In the past (17) the main authority for the genre and literature of the Maghazi (battles)
Every writing after him is based on his work, which, although all of it has been lost,
But in Ibn Hisham's astonishing summary of it, it has become immortal... the effect
Ibn Ishaq is distinguished by his precise and excellent method, elegant literary style, and beauty.
It is not surprising if we recall that Ibn Ishaq is not a complete researcher.
18
"It was not only in the Arabic language but also in the science of Hadith."
Javed Akhtar, author of "The Seven Stages of the Life of the Prophet Muhammad," agrees that
"Ibn Ishaq is trustworthy. He is very accurate in his writings. In times of doubt,
He repeatedly expresses his doubts." 19 Salah, his leader, from an Islamic institution to
The title of the foundation for civilization and scientific technology is the same for Ibn Ishaq.
"He has corrected the hadiths and his hadiths are also free from fabrications."
The deeds and behavior of the Prophet 20 are carefully mentioned and
21
"His battles are described in great detail."
And in the modern interpretation of the Prophet of Islam (which was published by the Council for Islamic Relations -
An American group that calls itself a human rights organization in defense of Muslims in America.
(Distributed, Islamic Defenders, Yahya Amrik, The Prophet's Family)

39

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"Allah praises Ibn Ishaq thus:" One of the first attempts at providing an explanation
22
"The complete story of Muhammad using extensive and extensive sources."
Martin Lyngs (1909-2005, contemporary Islamic scholar) who was known as Abu Bakr
Siraj al-Din has converted to Islam (in the current commentary on Muhammad with the name
"Muhammad: His Life Based on Primary Sources," respected by both Muslims and non-Muslims
(He has been awarded prizes in Pakistan and Egypt.)
(is), has relied mainly on three sources: the commentary of Ibn Ishaq, the commentary of Nabard
The works of Muhammad ibn Umar al-Waqidi (d. 823) and the Sunan collected by
The assistant of Muhammad bin Waghadi named Muhammad bin Saad (d 845) named as Kitab al-Tabbaqat
Al-Kabir. Since the last two were younger generations of Ibn Ishaq, the Sirah
The Messenger of Allah still holds the distinction of being the most important source of information for Muhammad.
Lingus also quotes from Tabari's "History of the Prophets and Kings" and also from Bukhari,
Muslim and other sources of hadith have also been used.
Therefore, I will rely primarily on these sources – especially Ibn Ishaq,
Because his work is the oldest in terms of time, and also on Ibn Sa'd, who
Many Muslim researchers consider the hadith to be more reliable than the authentic one.
It is taken 23. I will also make extensive use of Bukhari and Muslim.
Kurd – all form an image of Muhammad based on Islamic sources,
The image that a true Muslim must achieve if he truly wants to be
Learn more about the life and sayings of the Prophet.


Historical reality and Muslim belief


Using the Quran, Hadith, and Seerah, what can we ultimately conclude about Muhammad?
Let's know? Historical certainty is not easily achieved with an incomplete text like the Quran,

40

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Also, not with hadiths and narrations that are full of false information. And even
According to some modern historians, the Quran is also "the work of Muhammad or the Ottoman editors."
It was not, but rather, consolidated under the cultural and social pressure of the first two centuries of Islam.
"24 Although defenders of Islam generally pride themselves on claiming that the text of the Quran is
It has never changed and has no different versions, some of the references are even in
There is an Islamic tradition that shows that this is not really the case. A Muslim
Sadr-ul-Islam narrated by Anas bin Malik that after a battle in which many of the
Muslims were killed in it, the Quran was basically a message from the killed Muslims to
Those who were alive: "Then We revealed a verse in the Quran for the periods of
We used to read for a long time that it has been deleted or forgotten. The content is almost this
25
"It was as if we had met a God who was pleased with us and we were pleased with Him."
Meanwhile, some Western researchers, such as the distinguished hadith expert Ignaz
Ignaz Goldziher (1850-1921) and John Vansbrugh,
Patricia Crone, Michael Cook, Christoph Luxenburg and others, Transformative Works
A researcher in the study of hadiths that are about the actual sayings and actions of Muhammad.
And which is just legendary, they have done research that is fundamentally completely different.
26
It is a hadith according to the wisdom of Muslim researchers.
From a precise historical perspective, it is impossible to say with certainty that
Did a person named Muhammad really exist? Or, if he did,
He can be anything but what they attribute to him. In all probability, he exists.
It has – especially considering the aspects of his life that have been recorded as the source of
It is the shame of Muslims today (and to varying degrees throughout history) that
They are difficult to justify with modern sensibilities. They are hard to
Can you imagine a pious prophet approving Muhammad's marriage to a nine-year-old girl?
or his marriage to his bride. Muslims have tried for centuries to explain this matter either

41

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Other events in Muhammad's life justify, if all aspects of Muhammad's life
It was a fake, a scribe or collector could have easily forgotten them.
who often do the same thing. However, some historians believe
The Muhammad that the Quran, Hadith, and Seerah present to us is a composite personality of
There are several people who can provide a mythical foundation for the Arab empire. Others
It has also been challenged whether Muhammad was actually historically associated with Mecca or Medina.
Or was this story told to spread it in the most important centers of Arabia?
Decide.
These historical reflections have had virtually no impact on Islamic teaching or practice.
For our purpose in this book, to know what really happened in Muhammad's life,
It is no coincidence that the incident has occurred, which is more important than what Muslims generally think.
Because it is the latter, that is, the beliefs of Muslims, which are the foundation of belief, action, and
It has formed Islamic law. It is important to understand the historical Muhammad,
But perhaps even more important is to recognize Muhammad, whose life is so full of
It has defined and continues to define Muslims around the world. Image
The public of Muhammad and the mass of Islamic jurisprudence by millions of Muslims today
As the unchangeable law of Allah has been accepted, from His words and actions in the Hadith
It turns out that fundamentalist Islamic schools and jurists have considered it authentic.
It is their portrayal of Muhammad that influences the Islamic world.
Give; for better or worse, it is considered correct, regardless of the historical accuracy of this
No matter how many words are spoken, millions of Muslims look to Muhammad of the Quran, Hadith, and Seerah.
They do it as a guide to imitate the human they imagine to be perfect.
This concept has played an important role in Islamic mysticism. Isaac Wiseman
Researcher in the discussion of the mythical thinking of Emir Abdelkader Al-Jazeera (1808-1883)
who declared jihad against France and modern Algeria was formed based on it,

42

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Explains that in some Islamic mythological traditions, this is the perfect human being.
It is the family of humanity. In the strict sense of the word, only Muhammad achieved this perfection.
"Because he is the only one to whom the divine names have been revealed in perfection and order."
27 Although some less religious Muslims consider this to be an excessive veneration of Muhammad,
They find that public praise for Muhammad among Muslims around the world is less than
We said no.
For this reason, it is all the more necessary for Westerners to be familiar with this attractive personality.
And get to know each other.




43

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




Chapter Three
Muhammad becomes a prophet.



* Arab religions and gods before Islam
* Muslim traditions: Jews and Christians who were waiting for a prophet.
* Muhammad's first revelation: Angel or something else?
* Muhammad's deadly fear and despair
* How Muhammad became convinced that he was a prophet




Arabia before Muhammad

Muhammad introduced Islam to Arabia, which was a mixture of cultures and religions.
Muhammad's own tribe, the Quraysh, were idolaters. The Quraysh were based in the city of Mecca.
It was a city that was a center of trade and pilgrimage. Travelers from all the surrounding areas came to

44

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They passed through this city. The Quraysh made a prosperous profit from the pilgrims who visited the temple.
That is, they went to the Kaaba, and they found it. The Kaaba was the home of many idols.
Among them, Abel can be mentioned. Local gods of all tribes
The region was embodied in the Kaaba, along with other idols associated with trees and
The stones near the Kaaba were represented by one of these gods, named Allah, who
At the time, the God of the Quraysh tribe was not the same as the one God of the Muslims.
Among the gods, the three gods Lat, Mina, and Uzzi were revered and worshipped by many tribes.
They played a central role in the prophethood of Muhammad.
Due to Mecca's central role in the trade and religion of the surrounding areas, the Quraysh gained influence
It was noteworthy, in fact, as we will see, Muhammad's rejection of
The Quraysh led to the rejection of Muhammad by other tribes, while the acceptance
The subsequent conversion of Islam by the Quraysh led to the conversion of other tribes to Islam.
It happened.
Pagan Arabia was a violent land. Hostility and bloodshed were frequent.
And the people had come to this harsh and oppressive desert land.
Women were treated like animals, child marriage (with girls as young as seven or eight) was common.
(year) and female infanticide was common because women were seen as being stingy with money.
Later, the Quran condemned female infanticide, which was severely punished in
The Day of Judgment will have:
"Then the sun was darkened, and the stars became dark and dim. And
The mountains moved. And the camels of the women were left in their place. And then the souls
It will be connected. That girl will be asked to go to the grave alive. Which one?
Sin is killed. When the scrolls are opened. And the heavens are removed. And
They will kindle the fire of hell and bring forth paradise. Let everyone know what they have provided.
"See (81:1-14)".

45

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad


However, the Quran has a completely different message for child marriage.
Jews and Christians also lived in this area. The Christians around
The Najran were concentrated in southern Arabia near Yemen, where in the 11th century
The sixth Jewish king was called Masruq Dhul-Nawas. He also had a number of
Christians also lived in other parts of Arabia, mostly from the
They were apostates who fled there for fear of persecution and punishment from the Byzantine Empire.
Among this group were the Gnostics, who claimed to be physically
Physics is evil and they went to extremes in cosmic contemplation and claimed that this
Meditation is only available to a special group of people. Other Christians are Nestorians.
They were present at the Third Council of the Byzantine Church (held in Ephesus in 431).
(For denying the Trinity and not recognizing Mary as the Mother of God, curses and anathemas)
The Nestorians had made their way to Iran from the Byzantine Empire and there
They were welcomed and religious propaganda about the Euphrates in the sixth century
They were successful and had an impact on Arabia.
In the late sixth century, Numan III, ruler of the Lakhmid Arab kingdom in the northeast
Arabia converted to Christianity. In the northwest, the Ghassanid Empire
He was also a Christian and had a powerful influence on other heretical groups, including
They held the Monophysite belief, that is, they believed that the physical nature of Jesus was
He is absorbed in his divine nature. They had a fierce competition with the Nestorians.
The Ghassanids paid tribute to the Byzantines and supported them, and the Lakhmids
from the Iranians and both powers from these Arab governments to protect themselves from
The desert invaders used the southern deserts in present-day Arabia.
Jews also had a diverse presence in Arabia. The prominent Jewish tribes in
Yemen and the Khyber Oasis were concentrated a hundred miles north of Medina. In themselves

46

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Medina also had three powerful tribes: Banu Qaynaqa, Banu Nazir, and Banu Qurayza.
There were also three Jewish tribes present in Mecca. These tribes
Jews played an important role in the story of Muhammad ibn Abdullah ibn Abdul Muttalib.


Muhammad's life before the mission


According to tradition, Muhammad was born in Mecca on April 20, 570 AD (and
According to Shia opinion on April 26 (Sunnah claims that his father died shortly before
Muhammad dies at birth and his mother dies when he is six years old; and
Before that, Muhammad was breastfed by a wet nurse (a slave) and grew up.
It may have been a formal story at the time. Later Islamic tradition included other stories.
It also explains that even in childhood, Muhammad's prophethood was predicted.
In one of these stories, Ameneh, Muhammad's mother, says: "When I brought him into the world,
1
"I brought a light from my heart, it shone forth and illuminated the palaces of Damascus."
Muslims believe that at one time in Arabia, everyone was waiting for a prophet.
They were killed, and Jewish and Christian versions have announced his coming. Ibn Ishaq narrates:
A strange thing happened to Muhammad's nurse when she was returning him to his mother.
"When he returned the child to its mother after it had been weaned,
A number of Abyssinian Christians saw him with the nurse. They looked at the child and
They asked the nurse about him and examined the child carefully, then
They said, "Let us take this boy and appoint him as king of our country."
Because he has a great future. We know everything about him. Someone who
He told me this to explain how the nanny could barely get the child out of them.
2
"Retract."



47

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Similarly, a few years later, Abu Talib, Muhammad's uncle, who at the time was Muhammad's
He took him with him on a long journey to the city of Basra to become a monk.
Meet a Christian named Bahira. Although Muhammad was still a boy,
"When Bahira saw him, she stared at him intently, and there were descriptive marks on his body."
3
He found the one who had come from the Prophet (the description given in the Christian scriptures).
These stories about the Christians' expectation of Muhammad's appearance support this claim.
The Quran states that Christ himself predicted the coming of Muhammad: "And when
When Jesus, son of Mary, said: O Children of Israel, I have sent you to God.
I am. I confirm the Torah that came before me, and I send my messenger after me.
It comes from me and his name is Ahmad, the bringer of good news. Then when the evidence becomes clear to them,
They said, "This is a clear sorcery." (Surah 61, verse 6)
It is from Muhammad; Muslims now believe in the Holy Spirit that Jesus promised to send.
They equate it with Muhammad (John 14:16). Muhammad also shares this image.
Throughout his prophetic work, he promoted and said: "I have answered the prayers of my ancestors."
4
"I am Abraham and Jesus, son of Mary, who gave me good news."
The young Muhammad expressed his special connection with Allah in a conversation with the monk Bahira, who was
The gods of Lat and Uzza pray, they bring proof. He tells Bahira that
The Prophet of Islam will not be from any of them: "Pray for me from Al-Lat and Al-Uzza"
"Don't, because for the sake of Allah, I hate nothing more than these two."
Bahira then asks him questions that Muhammad would answer in accordance with what he expected of a future prophet.
He was going, he replies. Bahira "looked behind him and saw the sign of a prophet between
"His shoulders, he saw, were exactly where his book had described them."
Bahira then says to Abu Talib: "Take your nephew and take him to your land."
And guard him carefully against the Jews, for the sake of Allah! If they
If they see and know what I know about him, they will hurt him.

48

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
A great future awaits your nephew, so quickly take him home. 5". Then
He adds: "Indeed, the Jews are his enemies, and he is the prophet of this people; he is a
He is an Arab and the Jews will envy him because he should be a
6
"He must have been an Israelite. Then take care of your brother's son."
These stories agree with other Islamic legends about the birth of Muhammad:
A Jew who had heard about Muhammad requested to see the child.
According to Ibn Sa'd, "When he saw Muhammad, he saw a black spot on his back."
(As if it were a sign of a prophet!) He fainted. "When a Jewish man
He came to his senses and explained that "a prophet from the Israelites is standing there, and the copy is
It is written that he will make war with the Jews and
"He will kill their scholars." Which is more indicative of the view of Sadr Muslims.
7
Islam is one of the messengers of Muhammad.
There are two themes in Islamic thought that are frequently repeated:
The ruling that Christians and Jews knew that such a prophet would come, but
They deliberately disobeyed the command of Allah, and the Jews were the most open in their hatred and deceit.
The enemies of Muslims are the Jews. The Quran explicitly condemns the Jews and claims
It says, "Every time they light a fire for war, God will extinguish it."
And they strive to spread mischief in the land, and Allah does not love the mischief-makers.
"(5:64) Jews are portrayed more negatively in comparison to Christians:
"You will certainly find the Jews and the polytheists to be the most hostile people to the believers."
He found that those who said we are Christians were the closest people to him.
They will be friends with the believers. Because some of them are scholars and monks.
"Who are not arrogant" (5:82). Although the Quran also refers to Christians in some places
It is a big deal (those who think that Christ is the Son of God, speaking falsely)



49

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They speak (9:30) Perhaps a personality like Bahira, the kind of friendly Christian in
The mind of Muhammad has been.
It is also important to mention that, as a historical matter, nowhere in
It is not recorded among Christians that they were in Arabia 540 years after the death of
They were expecting a prophet, and nowhere in any Christian book is there any indication of this.
There has not been any mention of the appearance of an Arab prophet (except that he spoke from the tradition of Paul).
He may have spent some time in Arabia and then returned to Damascus (even in the midst of
Apostate Christians are not recorded to have such a belief; and the life of Muhammad is not mentioned in the text.
(He did not place Christian history in the period from the sixth to the seventh century.)
The church was led by Pope St. Gregory the Great. Summary of Christianity
He was not looking for a new prophet or a new sect.



Khadija


Muhammad's youth passed relatively uneventfully, except for the fact that
According to the hadiths of Salami, a young man felt that his destiny was
Greatness awaits him: It is said that he avoided farming with this saying.
"I have grown up for jihad, not for agriculture." 8 Chain of Events
which made him the leader and inspiration of all jihads, when he begins
He met a distant cousin named Khadija bint Khuwayd. Ibn Ishaq
Khadija is described as "a merchant woman of rank and wealth." 9. Muhammad Bedun
Khadija never became a prophet. When they met, she was a woman.
He was mature and experienced, and was forty years old. Khadija considered him as her
He hired a salesman and merchant to go to Damascus and trade goods. He introduced Muhammad to

50

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
A slave boy named Maysara went into business. On his way back to Mecca, Maysara
In the scorching heat, he sees two angels protecting Muhammad.
Mecca, Maysara recounts what she had seen to Khadija. Khadija also
He was pleased with the doubling of his wealth due to Muhammad's travels. Then Khadija told Muhammad
She proposes marriage even though she is forty years old and Muhammad is only twenty-five.
Year.
Evidence of this commercial activity of Muhammad also appears in the Quran, where
He advises the disbelievers in the language of commerce: "They say to you, 'If you follow me,
We will be driven out of our land. Did we not give them a safe haven?
That the products of everything flow to them. But most of them do not.
"They know" In fact, the disbelievers are those who "purchase misguidance at the price of guidance."
"So their efforts and their efforts will not benefit them, and they will not be guided" (2:16).
Khadijah had a cousin named Warqa ibn Nawfal who converted from Judaism to Christianity.
The priest had turned, "He had read in the Bible that a prophet would come from among
"The people will appear." 10. Khadija informed him of what Maysara had said and
The paper was deeply moved: "If Khadija was right, then the Prophet Muhammad
It is the people. I knew that the prophet was waiting. His time has come.
11
"It is."
The scroll would later play a vital role in Muhammad's prophetic mission, but not until
Fifteen years later, according to Islamic tradition, after the pagan soothsayers and
Jewish rabbis and Christian monks were informed of Muhammad's prophethood. According to
The saying of the Muslims of the leader of Islam, Asim ibn Umar, in the years before the beginning of the prophethood
Muhammad, the Jews of that region told the Arabs that "when a prophet came to
"He has been sent to you. We will kill you with his help."
But when Muhammad actually began to preach, Asim continues, "We

51

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
We believe, but we deny Him." 12 The Quran laments the Jews' misguidance:
"And when there came to them a Book from Allah confirming them, and they were
They sought victory over those who disbelieved, but as soon as they recognized him,
They denied it, so the curse of Allah is upon the disbelievers (2:89)."
The consequences of this denial have continued into our own time.


The first revelation


Ali, one of Muhammad's successors, was not considered an adult.
"And not too short," he describes. Among his friends, he was of average height.
His hair was neither curly nor wavy. Rather, it was somewhere in between. His face was neither wrinkled nor
Not bony. It was relatively round. Its mouth was white. It had large, black eyes with a special
He had drawn lips, big shoulders... When he walked, his feet
It rises from the ground as if it were walking among the flowers. 13. Another says:
"He walked as if he were overcoming an obstacle." 14.
A Muslim of his generation, "a broad face with red, wide eyes and a
"He was thin, 15". Another also reports that "he had legs and arms
He had a good body and a beautiful face. I had never seen anyone like him before."16
There was a void between his shoulders that impressed the Bahirai monk. A Muslim
He describes the sign of the Prophet as "like a fist, and its surroundings are
17
"There were spots like warts."
Later, when his hair and beard began to turn gray, he dyed them with henna.
He would say to his followers, "Henna is truly the best thing you can do with it."
You can change the color of your hair. Dye your gray hair, but...
"So that it is not similar to the Jews and Christians who use the color black."

52

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They did.18 Today, it is not customary among the Mujahideen of Islam to imitate
The Prophets dyed their beards with henna.
Muhammad himself declared when he was forty years old that the Prophet of Allah - the only God
True – it is. But at the very beginning he did not clearly explain what happened.
It has fallen to him.
According to Aisha, the young woman who later became Muhammad's concubine, he was
A long period of prayer was chosen as the Prophet's. One night during the month of Ramadan
While he was praying, he was revealed:

"The beginning of divine revelation to the Messenger of Allah was in the form of true dreams that were like the day
(They were bright.) And then he was given a seat in the corner (he was used to sitting in
He would sit in the cave of Hira and worship Allah day and night until suddenly he
19
There the truth dawned on him.

At first, Muhammad himself could not understand the source or truth of the revelation to him.
Later, he became convinced that what he had seen was the angel Gabriel, sent by Allah.
Ibn Sa'd wrote that tradition confirms that the angel's name was Seraphiel.
He will be replaced by Gabriel three years later! He also knows this fact.
It has also been stated that "the writings of the scribes and the lineage of the Prophet" contradict this tradition.
and claims that only Gabriel appeared to Muhammad. 20 Despite this,
It is hard to imagine that anyone who proposed this idea would have thought that an angel
Someone else was in contact with Muhammad, if at all, it was Gabriel from the very beginning.
In any case, the angel comes to Muhammad and orders him to read and
What he wants to say is, Muhammad replies that he doesn't know how to read.



53

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
But the angel does not object. He presses Muhammad in a terrifying manner.
Which:
Muhammad added that the angel grabbed me and pushed me so hard that I couldn't hold on any longer.
I had to endure it. Then he let me go and asked me to read and I answered.
I pretended I didn't know how to read. Then he grabbed me again and pushed me until I opened my mouth.
My patience was over. He then released me and asked me to sing again. I
I replied, "I don't know how to read (or what to read?)" Then
He pressed me for the third time and after releasing me he said: "Sing in the name of your Lord."
The One who created you. The One who created man from a clot of blood, indeed
21
Man becomes rebellious as soon as he considers himself to be in need (96:1-7) "...
The first revelation of the Quran is now found in Surah 96, verses 1 to 5. The Quran
It begins with what Muhammad presents as a collection of Allah's messages.
And these messages continued for twenty-three years, that is, until the end of Muhammad's life.
His followers were required to commit them to memory or to write them on anything.
which is available, they were collected after the death of Muhammad and
The Quran as we know it now has taken shape.
At the beginning, Muhammad shows his spiritual encounter with remarkable emotion.
"He was writhing in pain and his face was turning blue." 22. He was wondering if
Is depressed or even thinking about suicide:

"I wanted to go up the mountain and throw myself off and kill myself."
To find peace. Then he fell down, but halfway through, I heard a voice from heaven saying,
He would say: "O Muhammad! You are the Messenger of God and I am Gabriel." I turned my head to the sky.
To see him and oh, Gabriel in the form of a man riding a horse on the horizon says: Oh
23
"Muhammad, you are the messenger of God, and I am Gabriel."

54

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Muhammad returns to Khadija with great anxiety. According to Aisha:
"Then the Messenger of God returns with this revelation, and his heart is deeply troubled."
He was trembling, the muscles between his neck and shoulders were trembling. He came to Khadija and
He said: "Cover me." He covered her until her fear disappeared, and then she said, "Ah!"
Khadija, what happened to me? I'm afraid something bad has happened to me.
Then he tells her the story again. 24" Then he repeats his initial fear.
"Do you think I've been possessed by a spirit or am I just dreaming?"
25
"M".
26
Khadija apparently gives Muhammad more self-confidence. He then
The paper goes on to explain what Muhammad experienced in the Cave of Hira.
The paper declares: "If you have spoken the truth,
Indeed, he is the one who holds the life of the paper in his hands. Oh Khadija,
The greatest angel is the one who came to Moses and appeared to Muhammad.
27
"The Prophet is a people's messenger. So let us make a covenant with him with sincerity of heart."
Khadija repeated the letter to Muhammad to ease his anxiety.
Another narration says that he goes with Muhammad to see the scroll:
"Al-Barqa had become a Christian during the period of ignorance (before Islam) and had the habit of
He wrote in Hebrew letters. He wrote the Bible and Allah in Hebrew. He was old and weak.
He had no vision. Khadija said to Barqa, "O cousin! Listen to Muhammad's story."
The paper said: "What did you see?" The Messenger of Allah described everything he had seen. The paper
He said: This is the one who is the keeper of Allah's secrets and Allah sent him to Moses.
28
"He was sent."
Then the paper warns the new prophet:
"Oh, I wish I were young and could have waited until your people turned against you."
"Will they drive me away?" The Prophet asked.

55

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
He confirms and says: "With other messengers who have brought messages like you."
Enmity has been shown, and if I remain until the day you complete your mission,
29
"As long as you live, I will strongly support you."
30
Then he kissed the new prophet's forehead and made a covenant with him forever.
As the final test of his prophethood, Khadija asked Muhammad, "Oh, son!"
"My uncle, will you tell me every time you see that spirit?" When Muhammad told him
He replied, "He has no way of knowing for sure whether this spirit is good or evil."
Think:
So when Gabriel came to her, he told Khadija: "This is Gabriel."
"He is coming towards me now," Khadija said, "Get up, my cousin, and
Sit on my left. The Prophet did so and Khadija said, "Can you sit on my left?"
See? When Muhammad answered yes, she asked him to sit on her lap.
He did so and asked him about Gabriel, Muhammad still saw him.
Then Khadija threw aside her veil and opened her skirt while the Prophet
He was sitting on her lap. He asked if he could see her. Muhammad said no. Oh.
31
"My cousin is happy and has good thoughts towards God because he is an angel and not a devil."
Islamic extremists still insist on women's veiling to this day because
The basis of this notion is that looking at an uncovered woman is so sinful that even
Angels also flee.



Deadly despair returns.


Without the care of Khadija (who remained Muhammad's only wife until his death)
(And the paper confirmed, the world would never have known Islam. Soon after the paper

56

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The one who appeared to Muhammad was officially recognized as the angel of God,
The old man passed away. The prophet he had promised once again fell into despair.
It goes to the point where he thinks about suicide again:
But after a few days, the man's letter and divine revelation also stopped for a while, and the Prophet
He became so sad that we have heard that he had intended to throw himself off the mountain several times.
Throw yourself down, and every time you want to throw yourself from a height, Gabriel
He appeared before him and said: "O Muhammad, you are truly the messenger of Allah."
"You are." In this way, he calmed down and returned home.
This scenario clearly occurred every time Muhammad was forced to wait a long time for his appearance.
Gabriel has been repeated: And whenever the period of revelation is prolonged,
He did the same thing and went up the mountain. Gabriel appeared.
32
"He would say the same thing to her as before."
In another narration, Muhammad reacted to the resumption of revelation in the same way.
He gives the first time. He explains:
"Divine revelation had stopped for a while, but suddenly, while walking,
I went, I heard a voice in the sky, and when I looked up at the sky,
To my complete surprise, I saw the same angel who had appeared to me in the cave of Hira.
I was so scared that I fell to the ground and went back to my family and told them.
33
"Cover me (for example, with a blanket)"
The divine messenger gives him this message:
"O you who have drawn the cloak of night over your head, arise and be afraid, and magnify your God, and
Clean your clothes, and stay away from impurity, and do not give in to greed and excessive desire.
"Be patient for the sake of Allah" (74:1-7).
Muhammad no longer had any doubt that it was the spirit of Gabriel - but others had doubts.
They had. One of the early Muslims, Yandub bin Abdullah, narrates that

57

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"Jibreel appeared to the Prophet for a while, and then the women of Quraysh said,
Satan has left him. Then a divine revelation came:
"I swear by the light of day and the night, so that it may rest, that God has not forsaken you and
He has no enemy. And the Hereafter will certainly be better for you than this world. And soon.
"God will give you so that you will become a bear" (93:1-3).
As we will see, Muhammad often preached about the terrible consequences of his sermons.
It was probably despair.




58

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




Chapter Four
Muhammad's Revelations and Their Sources


* Islamic adaptations of Judaism, Christianity, and Zoroastrianism
* Muhammad's angry responses to the accusation of appropriation
* Prophetic Pride: Taking Advantage of Revelation
* Negative consequences for women and other revelations
* The efforts of defenders of Islam to clarify undesirable issues in the Islamic tradition



Adaptation from Judaism


One of the greatest challenges to the prophethood of Muhammad, what is the length of the twenty
And during the three years of his prophetic mission, and throughout the history of Islam, his attachment to
Judaism, Christianity, and other sources.

59

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Many witnesses throughout history have noted numerous similarities between Islam and
Judaism has been mentioned, including pure monotheism, a prophetic lineage, laws
Sharia, prayer towards the Holy City and much more. Muhammad as a merchant
Young and later as a newly emerged prophet, undoubtedly in close contact with the tribes
There were Jews in the Mecca area. Muhammad respected them and approved of them.
He seeks his prophetic mission from them.
In fact, Muhammad explicitly places himself in the salvation of Jewish history.
According to the Quran, Muhammad is the last and greatest of the successive prophets of the covenant.
It is ancient. After Satan deceived Adam and Eve into turning away from the truth,
(The stories that accompany the Genesis account in the Torah, with changes and additions.)
Allah sends messengers to people for their true worship.
Several places in the Quran list the personalities of the Prophet, both from the Jewish and Muslim versions.
Christianity is mentioned: "And We gave him Isaac and Jacob, and We guided each one to the path."
We guided Noah before him, and from his descendants were David and Solomon and
"We will reward Job, Moses, Aaron, and the like of those who do good." (84:6)
Allah then adds Muhammad to this distinguished group: "We also
Which We revealed to Noah and the prophets after him, and to Abraham and Ishmael and Isaac and
And We revealed to Jacob and the Prophets and Jesus and Job and Jonah and Aaron and Solomon.
"We gave David the Psalms."
Along with the prophets of the Gospel, the Quran is full of stories from the Gospel, Surah
The twelfth explains the story of Joseph and his brothers, although the importance of this story is
It is not news to Israel as a nation. Noah's Ark in the tenth chapter
It appears and Jonah and his whale in Surah 37. Moses throughout
The book is present, especially a strange collection of allegorical stories in
The eighteenth chapter.

60

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
If Muhammad seeks to establish himself as a prophet in the line of prophets of the covenant,
Atiq Biyavard should have been expected. He also repeated at least some of the themes of the Gospel.
But some of the stories and details of the characters actually come from sources other than
The Bible came specifically from the Talmud.
The Talmudic texts, translated in the second century AD, were in Muhammad's time.
It was passed down among Arab Jews, and some changes and additions were made.
His stories are similar to the biblical narrative in the Quran. In the Quranic version of the story
The two sons of Adam, the father of mankind (Quran, Surah 5, Verse 27), Cain and Abel, Allah the Crow
"He sends to Cain to show him what to do with his brother's body": Then
God raised up a raven that was digging in the ground to show him how to make a body.
Hide his brother. Cain said: Woe to me! Am I so helpless that I should do such a thing?
I will be a raven to hide my brother's body. After the group of regrets.
"(5:31)". The raven is not in the Genesis story of Cain and Abel, but
There are several Jewish rabbinical versions, including Rabbi Eliezer, a
Re-creation from creation to the wanderings of the Israelites in the desert. Islamic Defenders
They suggest that this Jewish book, in its current form, dates back to the eighth or ninth century.
It will be opened, just as there are several other texts in which the crow
It appears - then it is possible that the rabbis borrowed from Muhammad.
Despite this later verse of the Quran – which is quoted repeatedly throughout the book – at least
In Western countries today, the direction of adaptation is clearer. The Quran in Surah
Verse 5:32 says:

Therefore, We decreed for the Children of Israel that no one should kill anyone except
If a person kills a person in retaliation, it is as if he has killed all the people. And everyone
Keeping someone alive is like keeping everyone alive, and it is definitely

61

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Our messengers bring them clear proofs. But many of them are in the land of excess.
They turn.

No reason is given as to why this judgment came after the story of Cain and Abel.
It is, when Cain killed Abel, it did not bring to mind all the people. No connection
There is no clear statement of this in the Quran. However, it is clear in the Talmud:

We find it in the case of Cain who killed his brother. "Brother's blood cried out in
"It is not just his blood, but all blood, that is,
His own blood and the blood of his descendants. Man was created single to show him
Whoever kills one person kills the entire race descended from him, but
1
Whoever saves the life of one person saves the life of the entire race.

Here the connection between the killing of Abel and the entire race is explained by the interpretation of the word "blood" in
Travel is born. But in the Quran, these two are connected without any connection, which is a sign of
There have been numerous readers over the centuries who have found that these items have been deleted and
It has been handed down to the author of the Quran or the translator based on this source.
Also, in the Quran, the patriarch Abraham rejects some of the idols that his ancestors and people worshipped.
He crushes the gods they worship. Angry people throw him into the fire, but Allah
They said: "He will cool the fire and save Abraham." If you do anything,
Burn and help your gods. We said, "O fire, cold and unquenchable for Abraham!"
"(21:68-69)"
The story of Abraham being thrown into the fire is found in a Talmud called Midrash.
Genesis Rabbah, believed to have been composed in the sixth century AD
2
It is.

62

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad



Legends of the Ancients


A reflection of many pre-Islamic stories that were unfamiliar to its listeners.
There are no parodies of these stories mentioned in the Quran.
"And when Our verses are recited to them, they say: We have heard well. And if
We wanted to say it like that. These are the legends of the ancients.
(23:83)". Or "This is what we and our fathers were promised before, and this is
"These are tales of the ancients." (23:83)
Allah directly answers this accusation in the Quran: "And those who disbelieve
They said: These verses are nothing but fabricated lies, and others have helped him in this matter.
And they certainly bring about such cruelty and slander. And they said, "Fables."
It is the words of the past that he wrote for himself and dictated to him morning and evening.
Say, "They were revealed by Him who knows the secrets of the heavens and the earth, and
He is Forgiving, Merciful. (25:4-6)
According to the Quran, Muhammad's opponents made this accusation because of the hardness of their hearts towards him.
"And some of them listen to you, but We are over their hearts."
We have removed the veil so that they do not understand you, and you are heavy in their ears, and if you are a miracle,
They will not believe in it until they come to you and argue with you.
Those who disbelieve say, "This is nothing but tales of the ancients."
"No (6:25)".
Muhammad angrily responds to the person who made these accusations.
A revelation, Allah forbid, shows that this man is a haram (fornicator) and from every side:
The humble Khordeh is a commander of the army. He is a fool and steps forward to gather news.

63

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The obstacle to good is the transgressor and sinner, the arrogant and the adulterous. Just because he is a wealthy man and
He has a son, and when Our verses are recited to him, he says: "Legends of
3
"It is the past" (68:10-16).
Muhammad himself also admits that every reader is a fair witness to his prophetic appearance.
"You will find it in the copies of the People of the Book, that is, the Jews and the Christians." And the disbelievers
They will say: You are not a messenger. Say: Allah and the People of the Book are sufficient between me and you.
(13:43) "Jews and Christians will become equal Muslims:
"Those to whom We gave the Scripture before that believe in (Islam)."
(28:52) And "Do not argue with the People of the Book except in a way that is better, and say what is
It was revealed to us and it was revealed to you, and our God is One, and we
                                                   We surrender. (29:46)".
Allah even tells Muhammad to consult with Jews and Christians if
"He is in doubt about the truth of what is revealed to him." "If we reject what We have revealed to you,
If you have any doubts, ask those who read the heavenly book before you.
The truth has come to you from God, so do not be among the doubters."
(10:94)
According to the Quran, it was only the stubbornness of the People of the Book that kept them from becoming Muslims.
It was difficult to know Muhammad and the authenticity of the Quran. Ultimately, this stubbornness led to
Muhammad would become angry with them and claim that his new society was superior to them, and
"Indeed, you are the best nation for mankind."
You have appeared, commanding the recommended work and forbidding the disliked work, and
Do you believe in God? If only the People of the Book had believed, it would have been better for them.
"Some of them are believers, but most of them are disobedient" (3:110).
The belief that we are the best people, coupled with skepticism about the People of the Book,
It still exists among Muslims today. Inequality and social injustice

64

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They are known for their disbelief, and Islamic Mujahideen all over the world claim
They believe that strict adherence to Islam will make Muslims the best people in the world.
They will be.


Adaptation from Christianity


In other narrations from Barqa ibn Nawfal, who officially recognized Muhammad's prophethood,
The Bible is written in Arabic, not Hebrew. 4 The purpose of this change is to
The narration should have been a way of distancing himself from the Jews who were accusing him.
who taught Muhammad the Quran. Allah Himself responds to this accusation in the Quran.
"We know very well that they say, 'It is nothing but that a human being will give it to him.'"
Educated. No, it is not like that. The language of the person to whom this is attributed is non-Arab.
"While the Quran is in clear Arabic." (16:103)".
This stranger could have been someone else, the only Jew, Christian, or Christian.
He was not a literate infidel who had been in contact with Muhammad. Another person of the same personality.
The mysterious and pivotal figure named Salman is a Parsee. The Arabic word used in the Quran
The foreign equivalent is Ajam, which means Iranian or Persian.
The repeated insistence of the Quran, which is in Arabic, reveals this confusion.
To show oneself away from the influence of any outsider. According to the personality traits
There is another stranger and mystery: another Christian who welcomes with open arms
Islam turned and recited Surah Al-Baqarah and Al-Imran, and wrote for Muhammad.
In other words, he wrote the Quranic verses. But there is evidence that he was
The idea that they were divine revelation was misused because he later returned to
Christianity turned and said, "Muhammad, what else can I write for him?"
"He does not know." Tradition confirms that this man's sin is so great that after

65

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The earth's death would not accept his body, and every time his people tried to
They threw him into the ground, and the ground pushed him back again until they left him there on his back.
5
"They left the earth."
Confirmation of the Prophethood of Muhammad by a Christian who converted from Judaism
It was a shame for Muslims, and for that reason
Some Islamic sources have denied that the paper was Christian. However, some
Modern scholars have claimed that the scroll actually rejected Muhammad and that the text
Ibn Hashim's version of the Sirah has been distorted. They point out that there is no
There is no narration about Barqa's conversion to Islam or the details of his death.
Certainly an argument from silence, except for the strange omission in a passage that includes
The precise details of Muhammad's activities and the events of the early Muslims are first.
Apart from all this, the conversion of a Christian priest to Islam, i.e.
The cousin of Muhammad and his wife was an important event. Despite this doubt,
It is not that the majority of Muslims accept that the Prophet's position paper
Muhammad had converted to Islam and that the Torah (at least
(The original and undistorted version!) has predicted the coming of Muhammad.
However, there is a shadow of doubt as to whether the scroll represents an important part of the Quran as a revelation.
Allah taught Muhammad, always ruling over the spread of Islam. Throughout the centuries
There is no way to determine the exact relationship between Muhammad and Warqa, and no one can.
Title: It is impossible to say whether his wife's cousin was his source for the legends.
Is it true or not? Despite this, it is absolutely certain and interesting to note that the Quran has Jewish sources.
And it includes Christianity, and these are stories of the ancients, not from the Bible.
It finds its way into the Quran from various sources - some of which Muhammad
He probably encountered them in Arabia, where most of the Christians there lived.
From the perspective of the Byzantine Church, they were apostates.

66

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Although Jesus is not God in the Quran, he is a powerful miracle worker. He is even mentioned in
"And in the cradle and in the middle ages, miraculously, he speaks to people."
"He speaks and is of the righteous" (3:46) The snake, who knew this, said to those who
They doubted her virginity. He suggests asking Mary, "Ask yourself a child."
He pointed to Jesus. They said, "How can this be with a child who is still in the cradle?"
Shall we speak? The child said: I am a servant of God. He gave me the Book and made me a prophet.
He has blessed me wherever I am and has enjoined prayer and charity.
He has made me dutiful to my mother and has not made me rebellious or disobedient.
Peace be upon me the day I was born, the day I die, and the day I live.
                                                        Khaizam (19:29-33)".
In a small Arabic Bible dating back to the sixth century, it is written:
"Jesus, when he was in the cradle, said to his mother Mary, 'I
Jesus, then I am God, the Logos, the one who brought you into the world, as well as
The angel Gabriel has announced to you, and my Father has sent me to be the salvation of the world.
6
"It has been sent."
In the same Bible, this story is told:
"Now, when Jesus Christ was seven years old, on the day
Moeini was playing with boys his age. They were playing among the fish.
They did this and drew the shapes of donkeys, cows, birds, and other animals on the ground, and
Each one showed off his skills and praised his work. Then
Jesus said to the two boys: "I will command the figures I make to
Move. The boys asked him, "Are you the Son of God?" and Jesus prayed.
until they move. Immediately the images began to move and then
When Jesus commanded them to stop, they stopped. Then pictures of
He created birds and swallows on the sea, and when He said to them, "Fly!"

67

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They would run away and when he ordered them to stop, they would stop and when he ordered them to stop, they would stop.
He said, "Eat and drink," and they ate and drank. When the boys ran to
Tell the story to their parents, their fathers told the children, "My son is a watchman."
And do not go with that boy again, for he is a sorcerer: flee from him and
7
"Avoid and don't play with him."
Similarly, the Quran also makes another reference to the betrayal of the Jewish disbelievers:
When God said: "O Jesus, son of Mary, grant me a favor upon yourself and upon
Remember your mother, when I confirmed you in the Holy Spirit, that you were in the cradle and in the
You spoke to the people for a century; and then you were given the Book and Wisdom and the Torah and the Gospel.
I have learned; and when you were making, by My permission, from clay, the shape of a bird, then in it
You would blow, and birds would fly by My permission, and the blind and lame would be born by My permission.
You used to heal; and when you used to bring out the dead [alive from the grave] by My permission; and
When you brought the Children of Israel clear proofs to them,
I have kept you back. Then those who disbelieved said: "These are nothing but
It is not an obvious spell (5:110).
Muhammad's experiences with apostate Christian groups His views on crucifixion
It also describes Christ. Muslims believe that he ascended to the heavens alive.
He has gone and never experienced death. It is not right for Allah to allow
One of His prophets dies in disgrace and humiliation, then Allah will raise up someone like him.
He chooses to be crucified in his place. The Jews thought
That they had indeed killed Christ, but that a substitute had become Christ:
"And their saying: 'We killed the Messiah, Jesus, son of Mary, the Messenger of God,'"
Now they did not kill him nor crucify him, but the matter was made manifest to them; and
Those who disagreed about him were definitely in doubt about it and nothing was done.
They have no knowledge except that they followed conjecture and did not kill him! (4:157)"

68

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
This is exactly the same view as some apostate Christian groups who
Gnostics are known. Gnostics claimed that the physical body is evil.
And therefore Jesus, as the Savior of the world, could not have a physical body.
He has accepted and is certainly not crucified. God has just arranged things so that
The image of him being crucified or, according to the Gnostic text, Judas
He has made a likeness of Jesus and crucified him instead of God.
The fact that the Quran presents its text as a definitive decision on a dispute
(And those who differed about him will surely be in trouble about that.)
They are in doubt and have no knowledge except that they followed conjecture and rejected him.
(They did not kill them.) This suggests that Muhammad may have been involved in the dispute with rival Christian groups.
He has been confronted and intends to present his revelation as the final decision on this matter.
Announce the topic.
There is no need to imagine that Muhammad actually read the texts of apostate Christians to this extent.
The texts influenced the Quran. It is more likely that he heard them or
It is learned, because the text of the Quran is not a word-for-word adaptation. Sometimes
His understanding of the contents of the Torah and the Gospel shows that he was only an acquaintance.
A surface with stories that have been retold to it; in a chapter of the Quran
Regarding the birth of Jesus, the relatives of Jesus' mother call her Mary, but Mary
Originally the name of Aaron's sister (19:28). This indicates and for some
Contemporaries of Muhammad who believed that Muhammad married Mary, the sister of Aaron, to Mary, the mother of Jesus
These two names are the same in Arabic and both are pronounced Maryam.
Despite this, when one of Muhammad's followers encountered a Christian from Najran,
He returned to Muhammad and asked about this issue. The Prophet of Islam was a
"Ancient people had the custom of giving names to



69

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Give yourself in the name of the pious persons or prophets before you. 8 "Mary, Mother
Jesus is called Aaron's sister in honor, and not by mistake.
This possible error does not support the claim that Muhammad was illiterate.
This is one of the cornerstones of Islamic defense (and it is considered a miracle).
They know that the great poetry of the Quran came from an illiterate person (who they claim is
Muhammad "It is neither reading nor writing (or correcting the Umayyad) that has brought his name to you."
"They find it in the Torah and the Gospel" (7:157).
From a Muslim's perspective, much of the Quranic text exists in primary sources.
Whether it is good or bad is irrelevant. Traditional Islamic theology, more than
Everyone claims that the first revelations have been distorted and changed, and
Therefore, it was necessary for the Quran to correct them. However, since the original form of revelation
The former is similar to the Quran, so it should not be surprising that some of the earlier books
It should include Quranic prophecies.
So for many Muslims, the fact that there is no evidence of Quranic revelation in previous scriptures is a
It is only confirming the role of the Quran as a correction and successor to previous books.
Muhammad himself explicitly speaks of replacing Judaism and Christianity with Islam.
He says, and in one place he explains with an illustration how such a thing is possible.
9
It is.


Other adaptations


The Quran's descriptions of Paradise are very abundant and vivid. A person in Paradise with
She is adorned with bracelets of gold and pearls (22:23) and is clothed with "silk and
"He wears gold embroidery on his body (44:53)." He lies on "green pillows and beautiful carpets."
He will give alms (55:76) and will sit on thrones of jewels (56:15)

70

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"Trays of gold and cups will be passed around before them, and there will be what their hearts desire."
"And it is pleasing to the seers, and you will abide therein forever" (43:71)
The dwellers of Paradise will be provided with a harvest and a welcome feast (55:68) and from the meat of birds and every
They will be benefited by what they love (56:21). Paradise itself is a garden with
Streams flow beneath it. In those two gardens, two ever-flowing springs.
(55:66) With a stream of milk whose taste never changes,
A stream of wine is a delight to those who drink it, and rivers of pure honey.
(47:15) "This wine does not cause drunkenness, and those who drink it will never be
Drunk people don't suffer.
A paradise of reclining on thrones where there is neither cold nor sunshine, nor shade.
The trees are near to them, and their fruits are easy to pick (76:13-14).
Food and comfort never end. "Its fruits and shadows are permanent."
(13:35)
Above all, of course, "girls of the same age with prominent breasts" (78:31)
"Broad-eyed sweetheart" (37:48), "Broad-eyed maiden" (44:54) as if
They are rubies and corals (52:20), they will be with the people of Paradise. These women
They are virgins and "no jinn or man has touched them before" (55:56).
Allah made them virgins and according to Islamic tradition, they remain virgins forever.
Like "Also, boys will circle the Paradise as if they were pearls in a
They are the pearls, (52:24)". Youth with eternal freshness (56:17) And how they
You see, you think they are scattered pearls (76:19)
Of course, none of these are found in the Jewish and Christian versions, but in the writings
The Iranian religion is Zoroastrianism, which has a significant presence in the surrounding areas.
The Persian Empire existed before Islam. According to W.ST.Tisdall, who
He has a prominent writing on these issues called "The Source of Islam" and later published it in

71

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
He has written an extensive book and it also appears in his other writings:
"The books of the Zoroastrians and Hindus bear a remarkable resemblance to what is found in the Quran and
We see in the hadith that it is. Therefore, we are told that in Paradise, there will be a
There are large, black eyes that resemble pearls in a shell...Name
The word "Huri" comes from a Pahlavi or Avestan source, as do "Janta" and "Behesht" in
Avesta refers to a better land. Similar stories are also written in
There are Hindu gods of heaven with sons and daughters similar to nymphs and gnomes.
10
In the Quran.


Benefiting from revelation?


Aisha once asked Muhammad what the experience of receiving revelation was like, and he
He replied: "Sometimes it is revealed like the sound of a bell, and this form of revelation is difficult."
It's the most beautiful kind, and then I get what I'm inspired to. Sometimes
The angel appears in the form of a man and speaks to me, and I do everything he says.
"Which he says he will keep." 11. At another point he explains:
"Revelation comes to me in two ways: Gabriel brings it and he gives it to me."
It comes as a message that one person conveys to another, and this calms me down.
And sometimes it can be like the sound of a bell and enter my heart and make me
It makes you restless. 12. Aisha mentions: When a revelation is revealed to the Prophet of God
"Even on cold days his forehead sweats." 13 Likewise, when
He is inspired. "He feels a burden has been placed on his shoulders and his face
"It changes color." And "He lowers his head, and so do his companions."
They lower their heads, and when the revelation is complete, he raises his head again.
14
"It brings up."

72

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
A Muslim once said: "I wish I could be the Prophet of God."
"I will see the revelation at the time of revelation." Elsewhere, someone asks Muhammad a question and he
He replies: "Wait, and then a divine revelation will descend upon him....The face of
"Muhammad turns red for a moment and his breathing becomes heavy, then he calms down."
15
Then he answers the questioner.
One of the difficulties that non-Muslims face in accepting Muhammad as a prophet is
They have come from events during which he receives revelation. Just as
We will see that, often throughout his prophetic work, Revelation responds to critics.
It either resolves a conflict or gives a particular opinion about a set of events.
In more than a few cases, these revelations express Allah's concern for Muhammad's inner desires.
It shows, as in the infamous story of one of Muhammad's wives named
We know Zainab bint Jahsh. Zainab was married to Muhammad's nephew, Zaid bin Harith.
gets married – a marriage that, according to Islamic tradition, neither of them has any desire to have.
They did not, but Muhammad insisted on it because he believed in the equality of all believers.
It showed why Zainab was from a prominent family while Zaid was alone.
A freed slave. Muhammad claims divine credit for his insistence:
It is not for any believing man or woman to do what God and His messengers have commanded.
give them a choice in their affairs; and every soul obeys God and His messengers.
"Whoever disobeys has indeed gone astray clearly." (33:36)
Zainab bint Jahsh was apparently beautiful. According to the commentary of al-Jalalin, the contemporary
Islamic Antiquity Regarding the Quran, Muhammad's eyes fell on her because of her marriage to Zayd.
And from the bottom of his heart he falls in love with Zainab. 16 One day, Muhammad, in search of Zainab,
He goes to her house and finds Zainab wearing only her underwear.
Zainab said, "He is not here, O Messenger of God, come inside, you
"You are as dear to me as my father and mother!" But the Prophet of Islam left there with sorrow.

73

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
He turns away and mutters something under his breath, then says in a loud voice:
17
"Glory be to God, Who turns hearts."
Zaid, upset by his unwanted marriage, saw her leaving the house.
He goes to see Muhammad and says the same thing to Zainab: "O Prophet."
God, I heard you came to my house. Why didn't you come in? You're just as
"Ghaziz, who is my father and mother?" Then he points to the spot. "O Messenger of God, perhaps
"Zainab has aroused your admiration, and then I will separate myself from her."
Muhammad told him, "Keep your wife to yourself and fear God" (Zaid 33:37).
It opens several times, but again Muhammad repeats the same words. Aisha later
The reminder indicates that "if the Messenger of God concealed something from the Quran
This should be the same subject. 18". Eventually, Yad separates from his wife and for a while
Shortly after, Allah Himself intervenes. According to the Islamic historian Abu Ja'far
Muhammad ibn Jarir al-Tabari (839-923), One day Muhammad was talking to Aisha.
It was then that "the color drained from her face," then she smiled and asked him, "
Who will go to Zainab and give her the good news that...
"Did God bring him into my marriage?"
Then he recites the revelation of God that Muhammad was not what people thought.
They do, and for this reason, he scolds the soldier for marrying Zainab.
(33:37) Then Muhammad chooses Zainab as his wife, which is revealed by a direct revelation.
He was supported to save her from the disgrace of this marriage. Until today, Muslims
In the recitation of the Quran, this warning is given to Muhammad that he should not be afraid of gifts.
O Allah, he turned away and hesitated in marrying his former bride.
This new wife and her engagement to Muhammad worried Aisha.
"I was very upset because of what we had heard about her beauty, and
Because of something else, namely what he had done in the message to Zainab. I said

74

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"That he can show it to us." 19. And surely Zainab will cook it in sufficient quantity.
To the other wives of Muhammad, he said: "You were married by your family."
While I am protected by God above the seven heavens, 20 which resulted in Aisha's response
"I am the one whose innocence was revealed from heaven," he said, and the body was on the road.
21
Another story emerged from the questioning of Muhammad's revelation.

Muhammad had recently ordered women to wear the hijab, so Aisha was
accompanied him into battle, in a cabin on the back of a camel with curtains drawn over it.
It was carried on - and that created a crisis whose effects are still being felt in
The world is Islam! Aisha tells the story as follows:

"We were encamped on the way to Medina. Then Muhammad ordered the night
He moved. When he gave the order to move, I went to relieve myself.
I had risen and was far from the military camp, and after finishing my work, I went to my camel.
I turned around. I touched my chest and realized that my necklace was missing.
So I returned to find it, and the search for it threw me behind the caravan.
Meanwhile, those who were to take me on a camel came and the cab that
They put it on the camel and imagined it was covered.
Which I am in. In those days, women were lightweight and they didn't get fat.
They were very hungry, and they only had the habit of eating a small amount of food. Meanwhile, I still have a
I was a young girl. They lifted that camel and everyone left there. I was
"I found my slave, but the army was gone."

Since the commandment of the veil means that no one could
Aisha looked at him or spoke to him, and his weight was not felt in the bar.

75

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The people lifted Aisha's cabin and placed it on the camel, but they did not ask her what happened.
Is he inside it or not? That's why Soguli Mohammad stayed.

"I was sitting in our resting place and sleep overcame me and
I fell asleep there. Safwan bin al-Mu'tal was moving behind the army. When
He arrived at my place in the morning, saw the body of someone sleeping, and saw me.
He recognized me because he had seen me before the mandatory hijab order. Just because
He recognized me and said, "This is Elijah, and this is Elijah, the return of the 22nd." I woke up and looked at my face with
I covered my hands and I swear to God we didn't even say a word and
I didn't hear him say anything after that. He got off his camel and put it on his back.
His wife showed him and I mounted the camel and we set off. He guided the camel.
Until we joined the army in the heat of noon while they were resting.
"We have arrived."

Aisha was alone with a man who was not her husband. For some, this is why
"It's enough to spread ugly rumors," says Aisha. "Because of this incident,
Some of their own people ruined it, and whoever spread this rumor...
Abdullah bin Ubi bin Salul was with three other people (including another man)
The name of Mustah bin Atha' and the sister of Zainab bint Jahsh (in addition to some others).
Rumors spread, and even Muhammad was influenced by it and turned away from Aisha.
Return. Aisha explains:

"After returning from Medina, I fell ill for a month. People accused me of
I was being treated while I was unaware of anything, but apart from feeling uncomfortable
who was around me, I realized that the usual kindness of the Messenger of God when he usually

76

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
I was sick, and it has become less for me. But now the Messenger of God has only come to me.
He greeted me and said, "How are you, lady?" and then he left me. This made me suspicious.
I was aroused until I recovered and was able to go to the toilet with my mother.
"We went to Al-Manasi, but I did not discover the source of this evil (i.e. the accusation)."

Umm Mastah eventually passes on the rumors to Aisha, which results in
Aisha's illness gets even worse:

"Then my illness worsened, and when I reached home, I went to the Messenger of God."
He came and after greeting me asked how I was. I said: Do you allow me to come near you?
Should I go back to my parents? I wanted to make sure about the news. He also gave permission and
I went to my parents and asked my mother: "Mom! What are people saying about me?"
What do they say? He said: My daughter, don't worry, you rarely find an attractive woman who is loved.
If she is her husband and her husband also has other wives, then that woman is guilty.
They will find out. I said: Glory be to God, do people really talk like this?
Do they? I cried until morning. I couldn't stop crying or go to sleep.
"I went, I continued crying again until the morning."

And of course, Aisha had a good reason to cry: Apparently, Muhammad believed the rumors.
Although Aisha also had defenders:

"(When the divine revelation was delayed), the Prophet of God sent Ali ibn Abi Talib and
He called Osama bin Zaid and asked them for advice on divorcing me. Osama
Bin Zaid considered me innocent and respected me. Usama said: O Messenger of Allah!
"God, she is your wife and we know nothing but good about her."

77

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad


But "Ali, who later became one of the great saints and heroes of Shiite Muslims,
Muhammad mentions that other beautiful women are also available for the Prophet.
Aisha never forgot this and later, with Ali's claim that Muhammad had sent her to
The title of "appointed successor" arose in opposition to Muhammad Ali himself.
Did he appoint me? Indeed, when Muhammad was dying, he was placed on my chest.
He was resting and asked me to wash him and he passed away in the same state and I
I couldn't even figure out that he was dead, so how could Muhammad Ali be appointed?
"Has he done it?" 23 Aisha's narration continues:

"Ali ibn Abi Talib said: "O Messenger of God! God will not put you in difficulty.
And there are many women in her place, ask your maid, she is true to you.
"Then the Prophet called Barira (one of Muhammad's slave girls) and said,
He said, "O Barira! Have you seen anything that arouses your wife?" The maidservant told him.
"I swear by the one who sent you as a messenger that I will never forget anything from him."
"I didn't think I could hide it."

Muhammad is convinced by this and turns to Aisha's accusers, quoting
Aisha says:

"Then on that day, the Messenger of God ascended the pulpit and asked Abdullah bin Ubayy bin Salul
He complained in the presence of his servants and said: "Is there anyone who will deliver me from evil?"
The man who hurt me with malicious accusations about my family is at peace.
By God, I know nothing but good things about my family and
They criticize a man I know nothing but good about, and he never

78

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"No one has entered my house except with me." And I spent the whole day crying.
My tears wouldn't stop and I couldn't sleep.
That morning, my parents were with me and I cried for two nights and a day.
I was crying so hard that my liver was burning. While I was crying, my parents
They were sitting next to me. An Ansar woman asked permission to enter and I told her that
Come in. He went in and sat down and started crying. While we were in
We were in this situation, the Prophet of God came, greeted us and sat down. He was not aware of this accusation.
He had never sat next to me. A month had passed and there had been no divine revelation about
My case had not been revealed. The Prophet of God then mentioned martyrdom. Oh Aisha! To me.
They have said such and such about you. If you are sinless, then Allah is sinless.
He will reveal you, and if you have sinned, then I repent to God.
And I will pray to Him for your forgiveness, because if anyone repents of his sin,
"God accepts his repentance slowly."



Here, Aisha stands up for herself against her accusers and even
In his defense, he quotes from the Quran:

"When the Messenger of God finished speaking, my tears completely stopped and even
I did not shed a single tear. I told my father: "From me, tell the Prophet of God about
Answer what he said. My father said: "By God, I don't know what to say." Then
I asked my mother to answer for me. She also said, "By God, I don't know."
What should we say to the Prophet of God? Even though I was a young girl and had read the Quran
I had little knowledge, so I said: By God, I know without a doubt that you are saying these words and
You have heard the accusations in such a way that they have become etched in your mind and you have accepted them as the truth.

79

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
You have an idea. Now if we tell you that I am innocent, you will not believe me. And if
I lie and confess that I am a sinner, and God knows that I am innocent, you are safe.
(12:18) Then I will return to my bed, hoping that God will
"Prove my innocence."
Allah answers this question:
"By God, the Prophet of God had risen and had not left the house when the divine revelation came to him."
He descended. Then, he assumed the same position that usually occurs during revelation.
He took it, and drops of sweat flowed down his body like pearls, even though it was a cold day.
When the revelation ended, he stood up with a smile and the first word he uttered was
25
It was: "Oh, Aisha, Allah has declared your innocence!" (v.24.11-21)
Here is a complete text of the Quranic declaration of Aisha's innocence.
And he criticizes Muslims for believing these accusations and gives the standard evidence.
In cases of sexual crimes, which are still part of Islamic law today,
It will be:
"Indeed, those who brought that slander [the story of Afik],
There were groups of you. Do not consider that [accusation] as evil for yourselves, but for
You have a stake in it. For every man among them [who has a hand in this matter]
He has the same sin that he has committed, and he who is one of them who has
The one who has taken it by the neck will have a severe punishment. Because when
You heard that slander, but the believing men and women did not think well of it and did not say that
It is a clear slander. Why didn't four witnesses testify against it? So why are there no witnesses?
"They did not bring it. It is they who are the liars." (24:11-13)

Results



80

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Muhammad was certainly Aisha's lover, and it was clear when she received the revelation of her innocence from God.
It has come to him that his imagination has been at ease. But here in the case of Zainab, it seems
It is clear that Allah's concern for His Prophet in the Quran is that the message is universal.
And it is applicable to all people at any time and place, even in places of
Special. Even Aisha was surprised by it. "But by God, I didn't think that Allah
Confirm my innocence because I myself did not consider it so important to be
God speaks about it through divine revelation. But only to be hopeful of
"Through a dream, may God show me my innocence." 26 In fact, even after centuries
Muslims are amazed by it.
Of course, as in the case of Zainab, there is an explanation for Muhammad's desires here:
Through the story of Zainab, Muslims are reminded that a man can be faithful to his wife.
The son's divorce is a strange thing to do for legitimacy.
The Prophet, God, and divine revelation should all be included in such a secondary topic.
The result of this weakening of children's literacy in Islamic culture has been,
Similarly, Zayd is no longer known as Zayd bin Muhammad or Zayd son of Muhammad, but
Zaid bin Harith was called by the name of his real father. The Quran says: God
He has not placed two hearts within him for any man, and those wives of yours who are
You make your mothers "Zuhar" and your adopted sons your real sons.
You have not appointed. This is your speech on your tongue, and [for] God the truth.
You say, "And he is." Call them by their fathers' names, for that is more just in the sight of God.
If you do not know their fathers, then they will become religious brothers or guardians and in
It is not a sin that you have committed mistakes, but rather what your hearts intend.
And Allah is Forgiving and Merciful (33:4-5).
The false accusation against Aisha required four witnesses to prove the accusation.
The man must be a Muslim until the crime of adultery or other indiscretions is proven. In the case of

81

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Sexual misconduct also requires four male witnesses who, according to the wife's revelation,
He will forgive his youth (28) (24:13) and just as Aisha herself said
It does not count towards denying the accusation against him, so Islamic laws of credibility
It limits women's testimony - especially in cases of sexual immorality.
The Quran says... "And call two witnesses from among your men, and if two men
A man and two women, from among those witnesses whom you are satisfied with.
[Take witnesses], so that [if] one of the two [women] forgets, the other woman can take her.
"And when the witnesses are called, they should not refuse to testify" (2:282)...and
Theorists of Islamic jurisprudence have interpreted female martyrdom even more (and in the language of
Jurisprudence (cases requiring ownership or transfer of ownership such as the sale of "limited"
29
Otherwise, only men can testify.
As a result, even today in lands where Islamic law prevails,
It is practically impossible to prove rape. Reckless men can commit rape and
They are acquitted of the crime because the victim's words do not count. Even worse, if a woman
If a woman accuses a man of rape, she may be accusing herself.
If no male witness is found, the accusation of rape of the victim is considered an admission of adultery.
This has led to the alarming reality that about 75 percent of women in
Pakistani prison inmates are actually behind bars for being rape victims
And30. Several recent cases in Nigeria have revolved around allegations of rape and accusations of adultery.
31
And they have faced a death sentence that they have only changed under international pressure.
Furthermore, these abuses are extremely resistant to criticism and reform.
They are – they are based above all on the example of Muhammad, that is, on the perfect model.
Human behavior!
Shame in the modern era



82

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Despite this, many defenders of Islam and Muslims in the present era
Modern people feel embarrassed and ashamed about these issues, or at least
It seems they don't want their readers to know much about this. Yahya
America does just that in "The Life and Works of Muhammad" by Zainab bint Jahsh.
It is said that she was married to the Prophet and was enslaved and greatly humiliated by him.
He had divorced 32. He had no memory of Muhammad's distress at seeing
He does not mention his nakedness or the subsequent divine revelation narrated in Surah 33.
He does not. He is referring to Zayd being adopted by Muhammad and changing his name to Zayd bin
It mentions Muhammad without even mentioning the change of his name to Zaid bin Haritha, which is mentioned in the work.
33
Revelation was created to speak.
Muhammad Hussein Haykal, "In the Life of Muhammad," angrily criticizes Orientalism
Those who use the story of Zainab to smear Muhammad say:
"Western orientalists and missionaries, in order to vent their anger and imagination,
They pause in the story of Zainab. In this chapter of the life of Muhammad,
Some of them paint an excessively sexualized image of Zainab. They convey
They say that when Muhammad saw her, she was half-naked, her beautiful black hair
It covered half of her body, and every curve of her body was filled with desire and lust.
Others say that when Muhammad opened the door of Zaid's house, a breeze blew.
He took it and pulled aside the curtain of Zainab's room, so Muhammad could look at the member.
He was dressed in nightgown and sleepwear. They then told their readers
They suggest that Muhammad's heart beat with love and desire for women. They narrate
They say that Muhammad hid his desire, although he could hardly do it.
Hide it for a long time!
This and many other images like this were created with great effort by orientalists.
and missionaries have been painted and can be found in the works of Muir, Mangham,

83

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Washington found Irving, Lammons and others. It cannot be denied that this
A story based on reports of the Muslim's lustful interpretation of the book
It is a hadith. But these books are challenging. And it is unfortunate that the authors
We have used them without any hesitation. There is no excuse for these researchers.
Castles were built in Spain on the grounds of Muhammad's relationships with women. The castle
which they justified by the fact that Muhammad probably had many wives.
"He was married not only once, or according to some versions even more than once."
Hackel then responds that even if this story of Zainab's marriage to
Muhammad is right, and there is no doubt about Muhammad's prophethood, his greatness, and his message.
It doesn't have it.
Why not? Because "the decrees that are made for the people are for a man like this."
Greatness has no use. By a more solid logic, they have no use for prophets.
"They don't have it." And even more than this strange and romantic view, the reality is that
Muhammad was not a human being, a prisoner of lust and desire, as orientalists and missionaries have
They have depicted. He did not marry his wife for lust, desire, or love. If
Some Muslims allowed themselves to do so in certain historical periods.
They attribute things to the Prophet and in this way, even though with good intentions, they have an excuse.
The enemies of Islam have given up, because it is their conservatism that
This led them to adopt a materialistic attitude. Thus, in Muhammad's behavior regarding
Everything exciting in this world is exaggerated. But this image that they
The history of Muhammad immediately denies it, and logic
34
"His life is in complete opposition to that."
Karen Armstrong, in contrast, takes a more realistic view. She
It even recounts the moment after Muhammad was sent by God to
Wahi is reprimanded for his hesitation in marrying Zainab: "That is true."

84

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"God is in a hurry to complete this connection," but then he explains that
"Today's Muslims deny that Muhammad's marriage to Zaynab was out of lust."
And in fact, it is unlikely that a thirty-nine-year-old woman, who is always on the verge of
It has lived a life of nourishment and has been exposed to the scorching sun of Arabia, as
It arouses a storm of emotion in one's chest. Apart from the fact that his cousin
35
"He knew her when she was a child."
Despite this, and in contrast to the earlier narrations, we see in it that Muhammad was actually under
His desires were fulfilled when he saw Zainab sleeping with only her clothes on and Zaid
He also told her, "If you are moved by his admiration, I will divorce him."
I will give it.
Armstrong does not discuss the rumors surrounding Aisha, and this
It is not true that Muhammad disregarded his words and tried to justify them.
He only needs divine revelation. He does not care whether revelation should be given about matters.
The private life of Muhammad is not the focus, and there is no mention of the discrimination that women
Muslims suffer from it continuously for bearing witness, not to mention
On the contrary, he sees in Aisha a dignified behavior in the face of the situation and
It shows the self-confidence that Islam can give to women.36
Armstrong also does not mention Aisha's statement: "I have no
"I have not seen any woman who has suffered as much as the believing and Muslim women."
And they are still suffering.




85

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




Chapter Five
Warning in the face of a terrible punishment



* Initial opposition to Muhammad from his own tribe
* The evolution of the Quranic teaching on war against the infidels
* The Satanic Verses: Muhammad's Attempt to Appease His Opponents
* How defenders of Islam try to evade explaining the origin of the Satanic Verses
Do
* Muhammad's Ascension to Jerusalem




The problem with Quraysh


86

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad


After Muhammad, with the help of Khadija and Warqa, became aware that he was a prophet,
He began to talk privately to people about his new religion.
Initially, the nature of these positions was simple and monotheistic: this religious god
It is the religion that God has chosen for Himself and sent His Messenger with it. I advise you to
I call upon God, the Lord, without any partner, to worship Him and His worship is complete.
"And leave Uzza aside." 1Khadija becomes the first Muslim, followed by Ubayy ibn
Abu Talib, who was a ten-year-old boy at the time, and later joined the Shiites and some sects
Other people reach great heights. Three years after the initial invitation from
Gabriel, who was around the year 610, Allah orders him to "do what you
2
"You are commanded to proclaim and turn away from idols."
Muhammad called his relatives from Quraysh, went up a mountain, and
He calls out the families of Quraysh by name. He asks them, "Imagine that
If I told you that I had a military cavalry in the valley intending to attack you, would you believe me?
"Will you?"
They answered in the affirmative: "Yes, because we have heard nothing but the truth from you."
                                                                       "Em".
The answer from Muhammad's presence was: "I am facing a torment and
"I warn you of punishment," in other words, the painful Day of Judgment of Allah is worse than
It is very hostile.
This ascetic warning of the Prophet's uncle, Abu Lahab, who claimed to be a nephew of the Prophet
(He had no faith of his own). He replies to Muhammad: "You are right."
You've been ruining us all day. Is that why you've gathered us here?
"Hey?" 3 Then Abu Lahab addressed the Quraysh community and announced:
4
"Your host has deceived you."

87

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Allah Himself gives Abu Lahab's answer in a new revelation: "The wind blows with two hands."
Flames and death be upon him. His wealth and what he had accumulated did not benefit him. And his wife was always a murderer.
"The return of a rope of date-leaf fiber (111:1-5)". A hadith informs us that
Abu Lahab "was actually killed" 5 This hadith does not explain the manner of his death, but
It can be rejected for one possible reason: in this passage, Muslims are called their enemies.
They were not subject to violent attacks.
In this story, Yahya Amrik gives another twist to his book about the life of the letter.
The Prophet Muhammad gives. After Muhammad delivered his message, he
"Abu Lahab, who was standing nearby, angrily cursed Muhammad."
Slow down and he says he must die. Muhammad, out of an ancient custom of respecting the elder,
He holds his tongue. But soon, a few short verses are revealed to him, which
6
"It is said to Abu Lahab that he is the one who is condemned to death."
Muhammad continued to preach, but with little effect. His opponents
They asked him why he had no miracles, and asked him to show them the mountains.
Turn the surroundings of Mecca into gold for them, or drive them away from each other so that they can cultivate the land.
They should be better cultivated. Allah answers Muhammad: "If you wish, I
I will be patient and give them more time, and if you want what you want,
They want to do it, but if they do not believe, like the people before them,
They will be destroyed. 7". Muhammad requested more time and answered his enemies.
He said that his miracle is the Quran.
Once, someone from the Quraysh tribe asked him to call Gabriel or another angel.
"Send an angel to speak to them and they will believe." "O Muhammad, if an angel comes to you with
You come to us and speak to us and be seen by us, we will believe.
"8". But Allah answers in a revelation that "If an angel were to appoint him
We would have made him a man, and the matter would have been a mistake for them.

88

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"He comforts Muhammad and tells him that the people's treatment of him is
"And messengers were mocked before you."
Then the mockers will seize what they mocked.
(6:10)". Although the Muslims were only a very small group at that time
Violence against this new religion began from the very beginning. Ibn Ishaq tells the story
It defines that:
"When the companions of the Prophet intended to pray, they would go to a valley until their people
They could not see him, and while Sa'd ibn Abu Waqqas was with a number of the Prophet's companions in
One of the valleys of Mecca was busy with prayer, and a small group of polytheists was passing by.
They were harassed while they were praying. They took the Muslims to
They criticized and ridiculed him for his work, until Sa'd confronted one of them.
The camel's bone attacked and wounded him. This was the first blood that was shed for him.
9
"Islam was cast."
In the continuation of the same series of events, Muhammad continued his prophetic work.
He did not start out as a warrior, although he fought in the war between the Quraysh and the Khandān tribes.
The neighbor had participated 10. But he limited his activities to preaching,
Of course, his sermons threatened the infidels of Mecca with destruction.
"And how many a township whose people were unjust, and We destroyed it."
When they felt Our punishment, they suddenly fled from it. They did not flee and
Return to that in which you were comfortable and to your homes, that you may
They will be questioned. They will say, "Woe to us! We were indeed wrongdoers." Their speech
"It continued like this until We destroyed them" (21:11-15).
The Quraysh were completely shocked by the murder committed by Sa'd Abu Waqqas and
As Muhammad angrily began to attack them and their gods, they embraced Islam.
And they found the Prophet a threat. In return, they began to respond. According to Ibn

89

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Isaac, they "incited foolish men against Muhammad to call him a liar."
They will attack him and call him a poet, a sorcerer, or a demon-possessed person. But
The Prophet continued to do what God had commanded, he did not hide anything, and
He declared his aversion to their religion, he denied their idols, and they
11
"He would leave them with the disbelievers."
The relationship between the Muslims and the Quraysh became more tense when Muhammad joined the small group.
His follower said, "It would be better for you if you went to Abyssinia, because the king
They do not tolerate injustice and love their country, as long as God
"May Allah free you from this predicament." 12. A number of Muslims accepted his advice.
But Muhammad himself remained in Mecca and tried to convert the Quraysh to Islam.


Formation of the order to war


In one place, Muhammad's anger and frustration over his failure to turn
Quraysh is rushing to Islam. He has converted to a group of Quraysh people in the Kaaba.
He kissed the Black Stone and circumambulated the Kaaba three times. He stopped on the third circumambulation.
He stands and declares: "Will you listen to me, O people?"
Quraysh? By the One in Whose Hand is my life, I will kill you.
"13" crop. This was one of Muhammad's prophecies that he certainly believed to have come true right after the water.
It came.
The form of Muhammad's message began to change. Early in his mission, a group of twelve
A member of the Khazraj tribe from the city of Yathrib who surrounded Muhammad in a city called Al-Aqaba.
They were gathered, converted to Islam, and it is known as the Pact of Aqaba.
And it means allegiance to the Prophet of Islam. One of them explains: "We are with
We swore allegiance to the Prophet not to associate partners with God, not to steal, not to commit adultery, and not to have children.

90

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Let us not kill, let us not slander our neighbor, and let us not disobey him in what is rightfully his.
If we do so, Paradise will be ours, and if any of us do this,
If we commit sins, we will be punished in this world as atonement and
If our sin remains hidden until the Day of Resurrection, then God will decide whether
14
"Punish us or forgive us."
There is nothing in this pact about war for Islam. But one year
Later, around 622, the terms of this treaty seemed to have changed. Originally, Ibn Ishaq
He explains that "the Prophet did not order war or bloodshed...but merely
He had ordered us to invite people to God and endured their attacks.
And forgive their ignorance. The Quraysh, his followers, were harassing them, turning them away from their religion.
and exiled them from their land. Muslims must either abandon their religion
They were either released or mistreated or they left their land.
Some went to Abyssinia and others to Yathrib."
But now the time had come for forgiveness:
"When Quraysh became arrogant towards God and rejected His gracious purpose,
He accused His Messenger of lying, and those who served Allah,
They accepted His oneness, believed in His prophethood, and insisted on their religion.
They were mistreated or exiled. God allowed His Prophet
To fight and defend themselves against those who have wronged or threatened them.
15
"They will support."
Ibn Ishaq then explains the progression of Quranic revelation regarding war.
First, Allah gives Muslims permission to wage defensive war:

Surely God will help those who help Him. God is Almighty.
Those whom we make strong in this land will pray.

91

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They will give alms, show kindness, and avoid evil.
Ultimately, all things belong to God. 16 This body means "I give them permission."
I gave them a fight only because they were mistreated, while the reason
They were attacked only because they worshipped God. When they
Things turn in our favor, they pray, they give alms, they show kindness.
17
They do good and avoid evil, meaning the Prophet and all his followers.
When the situation turns in our favor, in other words, they are the Islamic government.
They will establish a place where prayers will be held regularly, alms will be given, and
Islamic laws will be established. But this is not the final word of Allah, which is
Those Muslims must fight:
Then God revealed to him: "Fight them until there is no more discord and religion is established."
It belongs to God, and if they refrain from transgression, except against the unjust,
18
"It is not (2:193)".
The text that Ibn Ishaq cites from the Quran is more than just a command to war.
It is defensive: Muslims must fight until this religion becomes the religion of God, until Allah alone
Later, Islamic laws, based on the sayings of Muhammad,
It gives non-Muslims three options: either convert to Islam, or submit to the laws.
Islam is either a humble entity or a war.


                                                        Satanic verses


But Muhammad's efforts to convince his fellow tribesmen to see
His new attempt was unsuccessful, and this failure led to the scandalous incident of the verses.
It became a satanic story that immortalized Salman Rashdi's novel of the same name.


92

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
In 1989, Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa to assassinate Salman Rashdi.
issued a death sentence that has always been approved by Iran's leaders, but until now
There has been no attempt to assassinate Rashidi.
According to Islamic tradition, Satan, not Allah, once spoke through Muhammad.
These verses, which rebuke the Prophet of Islam for speaking evil, are followed by the following verses:
It has been called satanic.
Muhammad despaired over his inability to convert his people to Islam.
According to Ibn Ishaq, in the chapter that Tabari has preserved by quoting him,
"The Prophet, may God bless him and grant him peace, was in distress and wanted to comfort them."
"Attract whatever it is." In fact, "he is more than eager to attract them."
"But in the end it was the leaders of Quraysh who made him a proposal."
They were ready to give him wives and wealth and even make him their king if
"Accept them in return for their conditions." O Muhammad, this is what we ask of you.
"Then stop opposing our gods and do not speak ill of them."
If you do this, we will also make a suggestion to you that will benefit you as well.
                                                                   All of us".
"What is this proposal?" asked Muhammad.
"You will worship the gods of Lot and Uzzi for a year, and we will also worship them."
"For one year, your God."
19
Muhammad replied, "Let me see what revelation comes from my God."
At first, the Prophet of Islam's answer was a definite no: Allah told him: Tell the disbelievers that
Muslims will not worship what they worship (109:1-6)
But the Quraysh insisted, "Muhammad, come and let us worship what you worship."
"We also worship, and you also associate with what we worship in all acts of worship."
But Allah told him to remain steadfast in his belief (39:64-66).

93

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
But behind this strong position, Muhammad was eager to find a way out of his confinement.
There was a solution: When the Prophet saw that his people would turn their backs on him, he responded
The good that he had brought them from God made him feel bad in his heart and
20
He wished for a message from God to reconcile him with his people.
21
He said, "I wish Allah would not reveal to them anything they dislike about me."
Finally he came up with a solution. He received a revelation that said Muslims
It is permissible to intercede with Lat, Uzzi, and Mina, that is, the three gods of the polytheists.
Worship Allah 22. But pain and despair due to his denial by his people from among
He went: This new message was in direct contradiction to the essence of his sermons. He was a man of letters and a man of letters.
And he had despised Uzzi from the very beginning of his prophetic proclamation, or even before that.
If we are to believe the story of his meeting with the Syrian monk Bahira in his youth, is this true?
The irreconcilable monotheism has now been cast aside for the sake of reconciliation with its people.
Was it?
Reconciliation seems possible. Quraysh rises and joins Muhammad and the Muslims.
After Muhammad received his new revelation, they prostrated. Ibn Ishaq
It is narrated: "Then the people dispersed, and the Quraysh were unaware of what was said about
Their gods were said to have been removed and they said that Muhammad was one of our gods.
He has learned honor and respect. He has learned what was called Gharaniq, which means intercession and
23
"Intercession has been glorified for Allah."
This word spread quickly among the Muslims: "Quraysh has accepted Islam."
24
"It is"
Since peace seemed possible, some of the Muslims who had gone to Abyssinia
They had fled and returned in complete safety. But a key player in this affair was not at all
He was not satisfied: The angel Gabriel, who appeared to Muhammad to give him Islam.
He came to Muhammad and said, "O Muhammad, what have you done? You are

94

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
People, you have read something that I did not bring to you from God, and you are something
"You said he didn't tell you."

Muhammad realized how he had jeopardized his entire prophetic mission.
"I have forged a word from God and attributed to him what he did not say." 25 He
"He was exceedingly sorrowful and feared God" because he had allowed the word of God to be spoken.
Let Satan be confounded. And Allah gives Muhammad a strong warner (Quran) (17:73-75)
And there was nothing that could mislead you from what We had revealed to you until
You will bind us to something other than that, and in that case they will take you as their friend. (But in
Finally, he shows forgiveness towards the Prophet.




Then God sent him a revelation that would bless him and clarify his
The problem is that every prophet before him has also been subjected to the same temptation.
He has desired what he desired, and Satan has desired what he desired.
His tongue is flowing. Then God nullified what Satan had said and
26
He sends down His verses, meaning you are like other prophets.




This strength of the heart is reinforced in the Quran: "And there was no messenger before you, nor
We did not send any messenger except that whenever something was recited, Satan would come to him.
His recitation would cause [doubts], but God would remove what Satan would cause.
Then God establishes His signs, and God is Knowing, Wise.
(22:52)

95

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
And indeed, this was a test for the disbelievers: "Until you see what Satan insinuates."
A test for those in whose hearts is a disease, and for the hardened.
"And the wrongdoers are in far-reaching conflicts." (22:53)

Ibn Ishaq says that Allah "relieved the grief of His Prophet through the body and
"He took away fear from him." He also sent a new revelation to speak with the devil.
Regarding the replacement of Lat, Meni and Uzzi:

Tell me about the other third, Lat, Uzza, and Manat. [Is it in your imagination?]
It is a boy for you and a girl for him. In this case, this division is incorrect.
[These are nothing but names that you and your fathers have named.]
God has not sent down any authority for them except conjecture and what they have
They desire not to follow, even though they have received guidance from their Lord.
It has come to them (53:19-23).

In other words, does Allah have daughters while the disbelievers have sons? For an Arab
This is a joke from the seventh century. Lat, Mina, and Uzzi are just figments of the polytheist imagination.
The letters that you and your fathers have given, and God has not sent down any revelation to them.
It is.

Muhammad returns to his original irreconcilable monotheism. No wonder.
After this, the tension with Quraysh increased. Ibn Ishaq narrates that the polytheists
They began to use this story about Muhammad:

"When the nullification of what Satan had put in Muhammad's mouth came from God,
Quraysh said: Muhammad has repented about the position of your gods in relation to Allah.

96

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
He has taken it and changed it into something else. Now the word that Satan has
Muhammad's tongue was constantly in the mouths of all the polytheists, and they were
27
"Muslims and followers of Muhammad showed more hostility."

The Satanic Verses incident has, of course, provided Muslims with reasons to be ashamed for centuries.
In fact, this incident undermines the validity and credibility of Muhammad's entire claim as a prophet.
The Prophet is a shadow-caster. Above all, if Satan could speak once from the mouth of
Muhammad speaks and it is revealed by God, who can say that
Didn't Satan put his words into Muhammad's mouth in other places as well?
Therefore, Islamic researchers and defenders have attacked the story of the Satanic Verses and
They call it a forgery. Muhammad Hussein Haykal claims in his book "The Life of Muhammad"
It's a shame that this incident never happened and in fact could not have happened.
Why Muhammad is a prophet:

"This story has attracted the attention of Western Orientalists and has
They have assumed and are vomiting from excessive repetition... stories that are not carefully
The contradiction is obvious. This story is related to the inevitability of any prophet in delivering
"The Prophet of God is in conflict."

He even wonders why some Islamic scholars have accepted its authenticity.
But he quickly adds: "Ibn Ishaq did not hesitate to make the announcement for his part."
This is a fabrication by heretics (non-Muslims who hide their disbelief).
They pretend and pretend to be members of the Islamic Ummah, especially the Zoroastrians.
28
and the Manichaeans"




97

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Yahya Amrik does not mention the Satanic Verses at all and does not explain
It shows that the Muslims who had migrated to Abyssinia returned. When "by means of
The merchants from Mecca heard that some of the elders of the tribe had converted to Islam and
29
"The situation of Muslims has improved."

Karen Armstrong rejects the credibility of the story: "We must clarify that
Many Muslims consider this story to be a fabrication. They point out that
There is no clear reference to it in the Quran, and it is mentioned by Ibn Ishaq in the first and
30
"The most reliable narration from the life of Muhammad is not mentioned."

But it is not known whether Ibn Ishaq mentioned this incident or not. Tabari
He attributes his version of the story to Ibn Ishaq, and there is no evidence to support it.
32
Let's say it was not like that. 31. Ibn Sa'd has also narrated this narration.

It's hard to see how and why such a story would have to be fabricated.
It was narrated by pious Muslims such as Ibn Ishaq, Ibn Sa'd, Tabari, and even
Later commentators of the Quran accepted and accepted Zamakhshari, who was probably
He wouldn't have said much of it if he didn't trust the source. Here, for example,
Many other cases, the testimony of early Islamic sources to this definitive story
Although the events have been explained in other ways, those who
They love to reject the satanic verses, but they cannot escape the reality that
These elements of Muhammad's life were not the inventions of his enemies, but rather by those who
They are reported to have believed in Muhammad as a prophet of God.

In the collection of Hadiths of Bukhari, we are told in one place that after
33
When verse 53 of the Quran was revealed, Muhammad himself and all the polytheists and disbelievers prostrated.

98

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
.Sura 53 refers to the gods Lat, Manat, and Uzzi. No story
There is no other prophethood in which Muhammad accompanied the polytheists after the revelation.
Verses from the Quran are recited. Non-Muslims are still welcome to join Muslims in prayer to this day.
They don't. Why did the polytheists come to prostrate themselves for the remembrance of this Surah?

                                                                    ascension

It was around these days that Muhammad went on his famous ascension, which Islamic tradition says
It is considered a miraculous journey from Mecca to Jerusalem. According to this tradition, in
Jerusalem Muhammad ascends from the Temple Mount to heaven and meets other prophets there.
The only thing the Quran has said about this ascension is: "Glory be to God."
It is He who takes His servants by night from the Sacred Mosque to the Sacred Mosque.
He traveled to Al-Aqsa Mosque (the Farthest Mosque), whose surroundings We have blessed, to observe the signs of
"Let us show him that He is the Hearing, the Seeing." (17:1) The name of the farthest mosque
It is not mentioned anywhere else in the Quran, but the Hadith makes it clear that this place
It is Jerusalem.

This dream, like Muhammad's first encounter with Gabriel, was quite dramatic.
Muhammad describes his ascension to a Muslim as follows: "While
I was sleeping in Al-Hatim or Al-Hajar, meaning in front of the Kaaba, which seems to be
Muslims believe it is the burial place of Hagar and Ishmael, when "Jibreel came and touched them with his feet"
It shook me. I got up but didn't see anything and went back to sleep. That time
The second one came and shook me with his foot. I sat down and saw nothing, and again
I fell asleep. He came a third time and shook me with his foot." 34 And suddenly "someone came to me."
"I came and opened my body from here to here 35". And Muhammad from his throat to his private parts


99

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
He pointed. Muhammad continues, "That person took out my heart, suddenly rejected it."
A gold filled with faith came to me and washed my heart and filled it with faith.
And then the heart returned to its original position. Then a white animal smaller than
It was a mule, larger than a donkey, and it threw its poison at a distance equal to the size of this dream.
"This half-mule, half-donkey creature had large wings that reached down to its feet."
"He is coming."

"When I tried to climb up to ride the animal, it pulled away."
Gabriel ran his hand over the animal's mane and said, "Aren't you ashamed to do such a thing?"
How are you behaving? I swear by God that no one is more honorable to God than Muhammad.
It is the one that has been riding you until now. The animal was so embarrassed that it got wet.
37
"He sweated and remained steady until I could ride him."

"They went up to the Temple Mount and from there to Paradise." "I went up to heaven and Gabriel
He was with me until we reached the nearest heaven. When he asked for the gate
When it was opened, he was asked, "Who are you?" Gabriel replied, "Gabriel."
It was asked: Who is with you? Gabriel replied: Muhammad. It was asked: Is
Has Muhammad been summoned? Gabriel answered in the affirmative. Then it was said that we
"He is welcome, we say. What a wonderful meeting he has indeed!"

Muhammad enters the first paradise and there he meets Adam. His angel Gabriel
He introduces him to Muhammad: "This is your father, Adam, greet him." The Prophet
Islam greets Abu al-Bashr according to his duty, and he replies:
"Welcome, O pious son and pious prophet." Then Gabriel took Muhammad to
The second heaven takes, and here too the questions and answers are repeated in front of the gate.


100

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
And when they enter, Saint John and Jesus meet him:
"Welcome, O righteous brother and prophet." In the third paradise, Joseph welcomed him with the same
Words meet and Muhammad and Gabriel meet with other prophets on other levels.
They ask about the paradise and its conditions.

Moses is in the sixth heaven, where there is another position to seek superiority.
It is the Jews, Muhammad says: "When I left him, he began to
Shedding tears. Someone asked him: Why are you crying? Moses said: We are crying.
Because after me, a young man has been sent whose followers are among the
"Most of my followers will enter Paradise."

In the seventh heaven, Muhammad meets Abraham and receives this command:
It is said that Muslims should pray fifty times a day. When returning from
On his journey, Muhammad passed by Moses, who asked him: What command do you have?
Has it been given?

Moses gives him a direction: "Your followers cannot pray fifty times in a day."
They will endure the day and swear by God that I have tried this before you and I will strive
I have used all my efforts for the children of Israel. To my God.
"Go back and ask him to make your follower lighter this time." Then Muhammad returned.
And the number of prayers was reduced to forty, but Moses still thought it was too many.
The Prophet of Islam went back and forth between Allah and Moses until the number of prayers was agreed upon.
The number of Muslims was reduced to five. Here again Moses is referring to the fact that
The Muslims doubted the outcome and said again, "I will not follow you."
They can undoubtedly endure five prayers a day, and I have the experience of my people before me.


101

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
I have from you and I have made the utmost effort for the sake of the Children of Israel before God.
"He himself returned and asked to make it lighter this time." But this time Muhammad did not return.
"I had asked my God a lot and this time I was ashamed, but
"Now they were content and obedient to the command of Allah." And when Muhammad was about to leave
It was heaven, he says: "I heard a voice saying, 'I have delivered my message.'"
38
"And I have lightened the burden of worship for My worshippers."

The Prophet of Islam also describes other prophets for his followers:
"On the Night of Captivity (the journey to Paradise at night), I saw Moses with a slender body and
Thin hair that was looking for the men of the Shanua tribe and I saw Jesus with
A medium-sized, ruddy-faced man who had just come from the bath. And I
I saw Abraham more than any other descendant. Then I was given two cups in
One was milk and the other was wine. And Gabriel said, "Which one do you want to drink from?"
I took the milk and drank it. And Gabriel said: You are drinking what is natural.
You have chosen (i.e. Islam and the true religion) and if you had taken wine
39
"Your followers would scatter from around you."

When the Quraysh tribe heard the stories of his ascension, they mocked him.
They said, "By God, this talk is complete nonsense! A caravan for a month."
It takes a long time to reach Syria and it takes another month to return, and how can Muhammad
"Could he go and come back in one night?" In a challenge with those who had previously been in Jerusalem
Muhammad claimed another miracle in connection with the Ascension: "When the people
The Quraysh did not believe me, I stood in Al-Hajar and Allah placed Jerusalem before me.
"He showed it and I described it to those who asked." 40. In response to
Muhammad later mentioned how many doors the Al-Aqsa Mosque has: "From the doors


102

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
I had counted them and then I looked at them and counted them one by one and put them in the
I gave information to those who asked. I also gave information about their caravan.
who were on their way and I gave them their directions. They did as I said.
41
"They found it."

But the evidence suggests that his descriptions of Jerusalem are contradictory.
They are not doing so: even some Muslims abandoned their faith and became the most faithful and
The most loyal person to Muhammad, Abu Bakr, was challenged. Abu Bakr was humiliated: "If
He says, "Then it's true." And what's so surprising about that? He told me about the connection with
God says from heaven that He has done it in an hour of the day or night, and I will
42
"I believe it, and it's more amazing than you think!"

Allah gives Muhammad comfort: And [remember] when We said to you:
The truth of your Lord encompasses mankind, and the vision which We have shown you, and
[Also] We did not make the cursed tree in the Quran except as a test for mankind, and We
We warn them, but it does not increase them except in rebellion (17:60).
It seems that Muhammad did not shy away from the claim that he had a physical ascension.
Aisha explains that "the Prophet's body was in the same place where it had been."
43
"He remains, but his soul has gone to heaven."

The Ascension has found a firm place in Islamic knowledge, as it is today one of the
The Foundations of the Islamic Claim to Jerusalem as One of the Holy Cities
It is Islam. But while Muhammad first spoke of it, this claim
It only worsened his weak relationship with the Quraysh.




103

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




Chapter Six

Muhammad becomes a warrior.



* The true beginning of Islam: When Muhammad became a military leader.

* The Covenant Between Muslims and Jews and How Their Relations Became Dark

* The Nakhleh attack and the beginning of Islamic violence

* A complete break with the Jews

* Muhammad orders stoning for adultery




104

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Migration

In 622 CE, years after increasing tensions with the Quraysh, Muhammad and
His followers eventually fled Mecca and, at the invitation of some people living in the city,
Yathrib had converted to Islam and migrated there (which is today the city of
It is called Medina, which is an abbreviation of the name Medina al-Nabi or the city of the Prophet.
The Hijrah occurred thirteen years after the beginning of Muhammad's prophethood. 1. The flight or migration of
Muhammad and the Muslims' migration from Mecca to Medina was an important turning point for this community.
They were no longer a small, persecuted group. Muhammad was now something more than
A preacher had been transformed: he was now a political and military leader. This
It is so valuable that the year of the Hijra and not the year of Muhammad's birth or revelation (both
An event that Muslims celebrate (the first year of the Islamic calendar)
The beginning of Islam as a social and political unit is the beginning of the calendar, and for
For Muslims, it is an event as important as the Exodus from Egypt for the Jews.

When Muhammad arrived in Medina, the nature and type of his revelation also changed. Revelation
A poetic and concise recitation of the Meccan surahs of the Quran (which are now often found at the end of the book)
They have, because the Quran is not based on the time of revelation of the verses, but rather on the length of the surahs.
The descent has been arranged (with longer, more controversial, more prose-like verses).
It was transformed, often including laws and regulations for the new society.

Many of these rulings were formulated in discussions and conversations with the Jews of Medina.
Muhammad's entry into the city found him in the vicinity of three Jewish tribes called the Banu Qurayz.
Banu Nazeer and Banu Qaniqa. From the very beginning of his prophetic work, Muhammad strongly supported
Judaism was influential – and he placed himself in the ranks of Jewish prophets, the flesh


105

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
He forbade pork for his followers, and like the Jews, he forced Muslims to
He prayed daily and adopted other aspects of Judaism. Now he is trying
He tried to get them to accept his prophethood. For a year and a half later
Upon the Muslims' entry into Medina, he had even ordered that the Muslims should
2
Jerusalem prayed.

Covenant between Muslims and Jews

During this period, Muhammad made a pact with the Jewish tribes of Medina, which, according to
Muslims are the first constitutional law of the world. Ibn Ishaq called this a friendly agreement.
It describes the covenant between Jews and Muslims. This covenant includes provisions for
Two groups of Muslims, the Muhajirin and the Ansar. This covenant confirms the sharp distinction between the believers and the
It is an infidel who is a disgrace to the history of Islam, while it has many rights.
It gives the Jews the opportunity to anticipate the behavior of Muslims towards the People of the Book.
Some of these meanings agree with the revelations that Muhammad later received.
They are slowly being repealed, which makes things more difficult for non-Muslims.
A difficulty that is still being felt now.

This covenant declares that all Muslims, whether they are from Mecca or elsewhere,
Medina, a united community – another principle that Muslims have held to throughout
History has emphasized this, although this unity has always been present when non-Arabs converted to Islam.
They turned away from it. Here is the unity of all believers and the sharp distinction between
Believers and unbelievers are clearly depicted:

"A believer shall not use the freed slave of another Muslim as counsel against him."
Believers in God will fear disobedience or those who commit injustice, sin, and

106

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They spread enmity and strive for mischief among the believers; the hand of every man
There will be such a person even if he is the son of one of them. Momin,
A believer will not kill another believer for the sake of an infidel, and on top of that, a believer will not kill an infidel.
It will not help. The refuge of God is one, and every believer can seek refuge in Him.
They give shelter to a stranger. The believers are friends of one another, so that they may be separated from one another.
...peace among the believers will not be broken. When the believers fight in the way of God,
They say that no peace will be established with the disbelievers apart from it. The conditions must be
It should be fair and equal for all. During jihad, every fighter should
Another must. The believer must avenge the blood of another in the way of God.
The God-fearing believers enjoy the best and highest guidance. No polytheism.
He will not take the wealth or people of Quraysh into his shelter, and for a believer
will not interfere. Whoever kills another believer without a proper reason will be punished.
The avenger will be killed unless the relatives of the murdered person take revenge for his blood, and
The believers will all be as one against him, and all will be united against the killer.
"They will be."

This covenant also includes the rights and responsibilities of foreigners, subject to the conditions
Relatively fair determination of the rights of the Banu Awf (Awf tribe) and other Jewish tribes
He orders mutual defense and forbids them from any kind of cooperation with Quraysh.
It is open:

"This equality and assistance pertains to the Jews who follow us."
He will not be mistreated and his enemies will not be helped...the Jews to some extent.
Those who fight alongside the believers will benefit from the spoils of war. The Jews
The Banu Awf (Jews have their own religion and Muslims have their own religion), the people and


107

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The freed slaves of those except those who commit injustice and sin (because
They do not harm anyone except themselves and their families. (With the believers, one
They are a nation. The same applies to the Jews of Banu Najir, Banu Al-Harith, Banu Sayda, Banu
Yusham and Bani Aws, Bani Thalabah and Yanfa and the family of Thalabah and Bani Al-Ashtiba Sadiq
"It is."

The fact that the Jews of Banu Awf are part of the believing community is a noteworthy explanation.
It is, and today's Islamist advocators never tire of quoting it. Despite this
Soon, completely different expressions appear in the lives of Muslims. In addition,
Mutual defense has one exception. The Jews agreed to fight alongside the Muslims.
3
Except in the case of a holy war.

Abdullah's conversion to Islam and the debate with the Jewish rabbis

Notwithstanding the agreements referred to in this Agreement (if any).
Neither Muhammad nor the Jewish leaders mention it in their mutual relations.
Muhammad's relationship with the Jewish leaders of Medina was steadily deteriorating. The Jews did not
They could accept the claim that a prophet from the lineage of Abraham and Moses could
They were non-Jews and, according to Ibn Ishaq, they began to "harass the Prophet with their questions."
4
"Giving"

But one of the rabbis of Medina, Al-Hussein, who later became Abdullah bin Salam,
(Some say that Muhammad was his friend after he converted to Islam.)
(He named him Abdullah) He did not oppose the Muslims. Abdullah also did the same.
Which is reminiscent of the stories of the monk's sea and others who, based on
Jewish and Christian descriptions of the Prophet Muhammad from childhood have been identified.

108

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"When I heard about the Prophet, I was deeply impressed by the
Description, name and time he appears I knew he was the one we were looking for.
We were waiting for it and I was very happy about it and remained silent until the Prophet
"He came to Medina."

When Abdullah heard that Muhammad had come to Medina, he shouted "Allahu Akbar" and
He rushed towards him 5. Upon welcoming Muhammad, he asked him about three things.
Which no one knows except a prophet. The first sign of the resurrection
What is it? What is the first power of the people of Paradise? And what makes a child like a father or
Does his mother make it?

And the Prophet answered him calmly, just as Gabriel informed me.
It is given.

Abdullah said in surprise: "Gabriel?" Muhammad replied: "Yes."

Abdullah pointed out: "He is among the angels the enemy of the Jews." And in this religion
The Prophet Muhammad quotes a verse from the Quran: "Say: Whoever is an enemy of Gabriel
[Indeed, he is an enemy of God] because he revealed the Quran to his heart by God's command.
It has done so, while there was confirmation [of the heavenly books] before it, and guidance and glad tidings.
"It is for the believers" (2:97)

Then he answers Abdullah's three questions as follows:

"The first sign of the resurrection will be a fire that will consume the people from east to west."
They will pull, and the first food of the people of Paradise will be a piece of fish liver. Because


109

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
If the male sperm prevails over the female sperm, the child will resemble the father, and if the female sperm
"For a man, a child becomes like a mother."

Upon hearing these words, Abdullah immediately converted to Islam, and his people
It also encourages people to become Muslims: "I bear witness that there is no god but Allah."
Except God alone, and you are the Messenger of God; the Jews are liars, and if they only knew.
6
"They will accuse me of lying because I have converted to Islam."

Abdullah again says that he has converted to Islam and "when I return to my home
"I order my family to become Muslims too," he asks Muhammad for help.
He set a trap for the Jews: "The Jews are a nation of liars, and you make me one of them."
Take your houses and hide me there, and then ask them about me, and they will tell you.
They will say about my (scientific) position among them before they know me.
I have become a Muslim. Because if they knew in advance that I had become a Muslim, they would slander me.
"And they will tell lies." Muhammad accepts, gathering the Jewish leaders and
He hides Abdullah in a corner and then asks the Jews about him.
"What do you think, Abdullah?" They replied, "He is our beloved and our son."
"Our master, our rabbi, and a learned man."

Muhammad asks them: "What do you think if Abdullah bin Salam converts to Islam?"
"Did he turn around?"

The Jewish leaders respond, "May Allah forbid him from doing this!"

The Jews were trapped. Abdullah appeared and shouted, "Martyrdom is the
I testify that there is no god but God, and that Muhammad is the Messenger of God. 8.

110

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Jews, fear God and accept what He has sent to you. Why?
By God, you know that he is the messenger of God. You know that he is in the Torah.
It has been described and even his name has been mentioned. I bear witness that the messenger
9
"God. I believe in Him, I know Him to be true, and I approve of Him."

But the Jews now said, "Abdullah is the best among us, and he is the worst son."
                                                                   "We".

Abdullah declares: "O Messenger of God! This is what you are talking about."
I was scared!" 10 He later quotes: "I remember the Messenger of God telling me:
11
"They will do so because they are traitors, liars, and evil."

Such stories reinforce this idea throughout Islamic history that
The Jewish (and also Christian) version clearly foreshadows the prophethood of Muhammad.
They have testified. Another Islamic tradition that claims that Muhammad was a
A Jew goes and challenges the rabbis there: "The most virtuous of them all"
"Bring it to me." When the virtuous man comes forward, the two are alone with
They talk to each other. Finally, Muhammad asks him, "Do you know that
"Am I a prophet of God?"

The rabbi replies, "By God, yes, and these people know what they are talking about."
I know you. Indeed, your qualities and characteristics are clearly mentioned in the Torah.
"But they envy you." 12. This is only the stubbornness of the Jews and Christians.
It was a sin that prevented the affirmation of Muhammad's prophethood - in fact, this sin was so great
It is ultimately what forces them to change their version and completely
Remove references to Muhammad. The notion that Jews and Christians are

111

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The sinners have turned away from the truth of Islam, the cornerstone of Islamic thought.
Non-Muslims became.

Muhammad has prepared a short prayer for Muslims called the Fatiha.
It is recognized and the cornerstone of Muslim prayers and supplications (during a
Muslims are reminded of it seven times during prayer (and the first Surah of the Quran)
It is considered.

In the name of God, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful.

Praise be to God, the Lord of the worlds.

The Merciful, the Merciful

And the Lord is the Day of Judgment.

You alone do we worship and You alone do we seek help.

Guide us to the right path.

The path of those you have loved is not [the path] of those who have incurred wrath, nor [the path] of those who have gone astray.

(Surah Al-Fatihah)

Even though the Surah is as central to Muslims as the prayer to God,
For Christians, there is a controversial aspect. Islamic worship is a tradition intended to
The Jews are angry and the Christians are misguided. The Quran commentator Ibn

112

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Khatir (1301-1372) represents original thinking in the Islamic tradition.
Muslim Ahmad van Denfer considers Ibn Khatir's interpretation of the Quran one of the best and most authoritative.
The book explains and points out that it is of the greatest importance to Muslims.
It is 13. Ibn Khatir, in his interpretation of this verse, explains that these two ways
"The path of Christians and Jews is a reality that the believer must be familiar with in order to
They should stay away. The path of the believer is to know the truth and to be steadfast in it. In comparison
Jews have abandoned religion, while Christians have abandoned true knowledge.
They have given up. It is for this reason that God's wrath is upon the Jews, in
14
"While Christians are simply considered as misguided."

Hypocrites

Here, according to Ibn Ishaq, some of the hypocrites of Medina shared the same motive with
The Jews were in opposition to Muhammad. The hypocrites were a number of tribes in Medina.
who had become Muslims; according to some early Islamic texts, they were
Fearful and convinced, they had turned to Islam to become the fifth pillar of the Islamic nation.
The Quran is full of fierce denunciations of hypocrisy and conspiracy.
Muhammad also received revelations to attack hypocrisy.
He received them because of their unfaithfulness. These revelations give them a stern warning.
(This is a story of anger and despair at their hypocrisy.) Quran: Surah 2,
Verses eight to fifteen)

A whole chapter in the Quran is dedicated to the dishonesty and deceit of hypocrites.
It has been given, and in this Surah Allah declares that He will not forgive them:




113

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"When the hypocrites come to you and say, 'We bear witness that you are indeed the Messenger of God.'"
And God knows that you are indeed His Messenger, and God bears witness that the people
They are two-faced, hard-hearted liars. They take their oaths as a shield and
They have hindered [people] from the way of God. What evil do they do? This body
The reason is that they believed and then disbelieved, and as a result,
Their hearts are sealed and they do not understand. And as you see them, their temples
It makes you wonder, and when they speak, you listen to what they say.
It is as if they are candles behind a wall, purified and trusting.
They do not consider any outcry to be their own harm, they are their own enemies.
"Fear Allah, and let Him destroy them, how far they have deviated (from the truth)" (63:1-4)

In these verses, Muhammad describes a group of benefactors who were talking to each other in the mosque.
They said he discovered them and ordered their expulsion. Ibn Ishaq says this
The work was done with a certain amount of violence.

"Umar ibn Hazm went to Zayd ibn Umar, who had a long beard, and cut his beard.
He grabbed her and violently threw her out of the mosque. Then he clenched his fists.
And he hit him on the chin and he kicked, while Zaid was screaming: "My skin is mine!"
You tore it up! And he would answer, "May the benefits of God be taken from you." God punishes
He has worse in store for you. You will never go near the mosque again.
15
                                                                     Aye".

Palm attack

With his new and stronger support base in Medina, Muhammad felt confident in
The Muslims began to attack the Quraysh.

114

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Quraysh caravans, while Muhammad himself personally led these attacks.
Muhammad's first attack was at a place called Al-Bawa or Wadan, where
The Prophet of Islam was expecting to encounter the Quraysh caravan. They found the Quraysh there.
They did not find it, but during this journey, Muhammad gave the order to flee when one of the
The Muslims asked him:

Muhammad passed by me in a place called Al-Bawa or Wadan, and I asked him a question.
I asked whether it is permissible to attack the polytheists at night, while there is a possibility
It is likely that the women and their children will be in danger. The Prophet replied: "They
16
That is, women and children (are among them) (that is, they are also polytheists)

From now on, innocent non-Muslim women and children will also suffer the consequences of their men's disbelief.
They themselves suffered. These attacks were not just for revenge against the people.
They rejected the prophet who had risen from among them. These attacks were a key objective.
It also had an economy and considered the Islamic movement halal. These attacks
They also provided an opportunity for the formation of a key element of Islamic theology.
That is, he waged jihad - just as in an infamous incident when a group of Muslims in
They attacked the Quraysh caravan not far from Mecca. Muhammad
He sent one of his trusted military officers, Abdullah bin Jahsh, along with eight
The Muhajirin (those who migrated with Muhammad from Mecca to Medina) on a journey
He gave Abdullah a letter with the instructions not to open it until he
Two days have passed since his journey.

Abdullah followed the instructions and read the letter two days into his journey.
"By the time you read this letter, you will have reached the palm tree between Mecca and Taif."


115

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"Wait there for the Quraysh and spy on what they are doing." Abdullah seemed
He realized that this mission was dangerous, and he told the others: "Prophet
He has ordered me to go to Nakhla and wait there for Quraysh to come.
He has forbidden me to put you under pressure.
Tenth, each of you who is willing to testify should take a step forward, and if
Not a step back. I will do as the Messenger of God has commanded.
"They all went with him. Abdullah used the word "martyrdom" in the same sense.
The term used today by modern jihad terrorists: that is, this word is used to
"Whoever turns back in the way of Allah kills and is killed" (Surah: 9)
(111) And completely contrary to the Christian meaning of suffering unto death in
The hand is without justice and in search of faith.

Abdullah and his group arrive at a caravan from Quraysh carrying hides and skins.
"They're assessing the situation. If you leave them alone tonight,
They will reach the sacred area and be safe, and if you kill them...
You killed in the sacred month – "Because that day was the last day of Rajab, the holy month."
In which war was forbidden. According to Ibn Ishaq, they decided that
"They kill as many of them as they can and take everything they have from them."
Going to Medina, Abdullah set aside one-fifth of the spoils for Muhammad. When
They returned to the Muslim camp, Muhammad stopped taking the spoils and
He only says: "I did not order you to fight in the sacred month."
Politically, it is in a precarious position because Quraysh has begun
Say that "Muhammad and his followers have disrespected the sacred month and shed blood in it."
17
"He has poured out, taken the spoils, and taken the people captive."



116

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
But then another helpful revelation came that explained the opposition.
The Quraysh's hostility towards Muhammad is more hateful in the eyes of Allah than the Muslims' violation of the sacred month:

"They ask you about the fish in which fighting is forbidden. Say, fighting in it is forbidden."
A major sin is turning away from the path of God, disbelieving in Him, and turning away from
The Sacred Mosque [= Hajj] and expelling its people from there is a greater sin in the sight of God and
Sedition [=polytheism] is greater than killing, and they will continue to fight you until
They can turn you back from your religion, and those of you who turn back from your religion,
They die while they are disbelievers, their deeds will be lost in this world and the Hereafter, and they will
"They are the companions of the Fire, therein they will abide forever" (2:217).

Any sin that the invaders have committed in violation of the sacred month will be punished.
There is nothing in comparison to the sins of Quraysh. Ibn Ishaq explains this Quranic text as follows:
It says: "They have turned you away from the path of Allah and His Sacred Mosque, with their disbelief in Allah."
They have detained you and expelled you from there while you were with them. This is for
18
"God is a more serious matter than killing those you have put to the sword."
When Muhammad received this revelation, he accepted Abdullah's spoils and prisoners.
Abdullah's mind was at ease and he asked: "Can we hope that this
Was it an attack for which the Mujahideen could expect a reward? "Here
Allah answers again that "those who believe and those who emigrated and
They strive in the way of God, they hope for the mercy of God. God is Forgiving, Merciful.
"It is" (2:218). The thoughts of Abdullah and his group of emigrants are completely at ease.

This was an important event because it provides a model for Muslims. Well.
It is equated with anything that benefits Muslims, and evil is anything that harms them.


117

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They cause harm without reference to any moral standards. Absolute principles
Morality is set aside in favor of the overarching principle of self-interest.

Breaking with the Jews and changing the clan

Muhammad also wanted the Jews to recognize his prophetic status.
He wrote a letter to the Jews of Khaybar, who numbered about a hundred in the Khaybar oasis.
They lived a kilometer north of Medina, and he explained to them who he was and
Why should you accept his claim? The letter began with a quote from the Quran and claimed:
(The Jews will find these matters in their own copy of the Quran.) (48:29) Then
Muhammad directly challenged them to appear in their own books.
Search for him:

"In God and in what He has sent down to you, in the food of heaven and the quails."
which He gave to your tribes before you (referring to the story of hunger and wandering)
The Jews in the wilderness on their way to the Promised Land and Jehovah's help in delivering them from
hunger), and by Him who dried up the sea for your fathers when He
Deliver me from Pharaoh and his works. I ask you to tell me: Are you in
You will not understand what he has sent down to you, that you should believe in Muhammad.
19
"Bring it?"

Here, Muhammad recited part of what is now known as the verse of the Quran in the second chapter,
There is a verse, 256, which contains the advice that no one
There is no compulsion in religion. But the fate of the Jews of Arabia shows that
This verse, even in the days of Muhammad, was an open and free call for religious pluralism.


118

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
It has not been, and Muslims have not been asked to live in peace and equality with non-Muslims.
To live.

Some suggest that this verse was written after the immediate results of his letter to the Jews.
Khaybar has been revealed. Some Jews challenged Muhammad in the only way they could.
They could answer. One explains that Muhammad "did not bring anything that we
We can recognize him as a prophet and he is not the one we have been told.
"That is, he is not the Messiah that the Jews told the Arabs before Muhammad.
who begins his prophetic work. Muhammad receives a revelation in response that
"And when there came to them a Book from their Lord confirming that which was with them,
And they were waiting for victory over those who disbelieved from the beginning.
As soon as that which they knew [of] came to them, they denied it.
"The curse of God is upon the disbelievers" (Surah Al-Baqarah, verse 89) Another Jewish leader mentioned
He said, "No treaty was made between us and Muhammad." Allah again through
The Prophet replies: "And were it not that [the Jews] made a treaty whenever
A group of them threw it away, but [the truth is that] most of them
"They do not believe" (2:100)

Around the time of the Nahla attack, Muhammad had the idea that the Jews were plotting against him.
They will release the acceptance as a prophet. Before this, at the time of the Ascension, he
He claimed a deeper connection to Abraham: "I am more than any descendant of Abraham."
20
"I am like Abraham again."




119

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Here he receives a revelation from Allah that commands Muslims to
They pray facing Mecca instead of Jerusalem, and it is announced that praying towards
Jerusalem was only a test for believers.

After Allah specified the new Qiblah, Muhammad was told, "Congratulations."
"And thus We have made you a middle nation, that you may be mindful of the
O people, bear witness, and the Messenger is a witness over you, and the tribes that you have followed.
We did not decree it except that whoever follows the Messenger should be given a share of it.
We recognize whoever turns back from his belief, except for those who
The guidance of Allah was difficult, and Allah did not intend that your faith should be taken away.
They will be lost, for God is compassionate and merciful to the people. (143)
We see good in turning your gaze to the sky, so [turn your head] to the Qiblah.
So that we may return you, pleased with your body, then turn your face towards the Sacred Mosque and
Wherever you are, turn your faces towards it. Indeed, the People of the Book are the best.
They know that this [change of the past] is the truth from their Lord, and Allah
He is not unaware of what they do. (144) (Quran, Surah 2, verses 143 to 144)

Opponents are warned to "Fear Me so that I may bestow My favor upon you."
"I will complete it and that you may be guided" (2:150)

This news spread quickly among the Muslims, while some in the mosque
They were busy praying the morning prayer when a man came to them and said:
Last night, Quranic verses were revealed that commanded the Prophet to pray facing the Kaaba.
"Then you too turn towards the Kaaba." Then they stood in the same position.




120

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They turn towards the Kaaba. Previously, people turned towards Syria (and in fact Jerusalem).
21
They were praying.

Some traditions report that some rabbis came to him at this time.
They came to Muhammad and told him that they had declared him a prophet and were preaching Islam.
They would accept if he turned the prayer back towards Jerusalem. 22. The Prophet did not accept Islam.
"Accept it and receive another revelation: Soon the foolish people will say:
What turned them away from the tribes they were on? Say, "The east and the west are from Him."
"It is Allah who guides whom He wills to the straight path." (2:142)

Muhammad, setting aside his initial inclination to confirm what Allah had revealed,
The Jews began to criticize them and accused them of hiding revelation.
On one occasion, the Prophet of Islam sent them to punish two people who had committed adultery.
They were challenging: Muhammad asked them: "What is in the Torah for punishment?"
"Do you find Shariah a stoner?"

The Jews replied: "We will declare their crime and scourge them."
"We will."

But here, Abdullah ibn Salam, a former rabbi who had converted to Islam,
He rushed to Muhammad's aid. Abdullah said, "You are lying, the Torah."
"He has given the order to stone him." Then one of the Jews began to read from the Torah.
He did, but he skipped the part about the stone and covered it with his hands.23
Abdullah shouted, "Raise your hand," and he read it correctly. Muhammad declared, "Wow!"
O Jews! What has caused you to transgress the law of God which you have in your hands?



121

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"And he confirmed that "I am the first person to hear this command from God and
24
"I have revived his book and will implement it."

Then Muhammad ordered the couple to be stoned to death, remembering other Muslims.
It says, "I saw the man bending over the woman to protect her from the stones."
25
Slow down.

Not only does this story highlight the sharp distinction between Islamic and Jewish concepts of compassion,
It shows, but also highlights the difference between the teachings of Muhammad and Jesus.
Slow – and this difference leads to differences in culture, history, opinions, forgiveness, and justice.
It has become Christian and Islamic.




122

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




Chapter Seven

War is cunning.


* The Battle of Badr: The Greatest and First Victory of the Islamic Jihad

* Theological interpretation of the Battle of Badr

* Debate over war damages

* Muhammad's wars against the Jewish tribes

* Muhammad orders the assassination of his enemies

* Quraysh replies: The Battle of Ahad




123

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
As relations between Muslims and Jews continue to deteriorate,
The Muslims finally faced the Quraysh. Muslim attacks on caravans
The Quraysh led to the first major battle of the Muslims. Muhammad heard that a caravan
The great leader of Quraysh, with abundant money and goods, came from Syria. He said to his followers:
"This Quraysh caravan has abundant wealth, most likely God will give them
May Allah grant you the title of spoils. 1" Ibn Ishaq reports that "the people of this
Some responded to the call to attack with enthusiasm and some with reluctance because they thought
They did not expect that the Prophet would go to war. Muhammad received a revelation from Allah.
Which criticizes Muslims who were reluctant to fight for the Prophet of Islam.
"Those who have believed say: Why were the verses [about jihad] revealed?
It is not possible, but because the clear verses were revealed and the name of the battle was mentioned in it, those who
Their hearts are sick, like someone who has fallen into a coma.
"They look" (47:20)

Allah told the followers of Muhammad to go to war with violence and defeat your enemies.
Cut.

"So when you encounter those who disbelieve, strike their necks."
Until you have destroyed them [in slaughter], then you have firmly established [the captives] in captivity.
Then either grant them mercy [and set them free] or ransom [and pay them compensation].
Take them [so that weapons may be laid down in war] This is [God's command]
And if God had willed, He would have taken revenge on them, but [He commanded fighting] until some
We will test you through some of you and those who were killed in the way of Allah.
"He will never let their deeds go to waste" (47:4)



124

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Muhammad heads to Mecca to lead this attack. He knew
That Quraysh would defend his caravan with his army this time, but he trusted
He had a soul: He would say to his men, "Have a strong heart, for God has given me
"He has promised one of these two" - meaning with a caravan or an army. And by God
"Now I see the enemy kneeling down." When he saw Quraysh
He saw the march towards the Muslims and prayed, "O God, here are the Quraysh with pride and arrogance."
He has come to be stubborn against You and to call Your Prophet a liar. O God!
3
"Give me the help you promised me. Destroy them today!"
One of the leaders of the Quraysh, Abu Jahl (meaning "Father of Ignorance", a name given to him by Muslims)
(whose real name was Omar bin Hisham), also had the same feeling that
It was as if the final battle had been won. While he was oiling a garment of silk,
He declared: "No, by God, until God decides between us and Muhammad."
4
"Don't worry, we won't go out."

This time the Quraysh were more prepared to face the Muslims than they had been in the desert. They were a force
Three hundred men confronted Muhammad with a force of nearly a thousand men. 5. Muhammad
It seemed that he had not expected such a large number and cried out to God in anguish.
It says, "O God, if this group of Muslims were to perish today,
He will no longer be worshipped. But after a short time, Muhammad feels better.
He said to one of his key followers, Abu Bakr, "Congratulations to you."
Abu Bakr. God will help you. Here Gabriel is holding the reins of a horse and
6
"He guides it. The horse's hooves rise up to his teeth."

Muhammad walked among his group and promised (a promise that was fulfilled in
The entire era is given to Muslim warriors (: "To God who sent the soul of Muhammad


125

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
In his hands, no man who bravely and steadfastly goes to war against the enemy and
"He who does not sit back will not be killed, but God will admit him to Paradise." One of the
The Muslims present in the congregation declare in the name of Omar bin Hammam: "Very good."
Is there nothing between me and my paradise that would save me from being killed by them?
Stop it?" He spat out the date seeds he had eaten and turned to the rows.
The enemy attacks and fights until he is killed. In a similar narration,
Another Muslim warrior, Awf ibn Harith, asked Muhammad, "O Messenger of God,
"What makes God happy and joyful in His servants?" Muhammad replied.
"When he attacks the heart of the enemy without hesitation," he says, "he will not be able to break his armor."
7
He takes it out and attacks the enemy until he is killed.

The Prophet of Islam picked up a few pebbles, threw them towards the Quraysh and said:
"Curse them!" Then he orders the attack. 8. The Quraysh, despite
Their numerical superiority becomes a trap. Some Islamic narrations say that
Muhammad himself participated in the battle, but other accounts suggest that he was
He was urging his followers to fight. In any case, this was an opportunity for him.
Who avenged years of despair, hatred, and anger towards the people who rejected him.
One of his followers later recalled Muhammad's curse on the Quraysh chiefs.
"The Prophet said: O Allah, destroy the leaders of Quraysh, O Allah! Abu Jahl bin
Hisham, Atba bin Rabi'ah, Shoaib bin Rabi'ah, Aqba bin Abu Ma'it, Umayya bin Khalaf.
9
"Destroy!"

All of these men were captured or killed in the Battle of Badr. A Quraysh leader in this
The cursed one named Aqaba seeks to save his life: "O Muhammad!
10
"So who will take care of my children after I die?"


126

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
In this confrontation, "Aqaba, who used dung, blood, and the intestines of camels for
Joy for the Quraysh chief, while Muhammad was prostrating in the hall, turned to him.
"Muhammad curses them, and now this curse has been answered."
Muhammad was in response to Aqaba's question, "Then who will take care of my children?"
11
He replied: Hell and ordered the killing of Aqaba.

Abu Jahl of Quraysh was beheaded. The Muslim who cut off his head was proud of it.
He gives it to Muhammad as a gift: "I cut off his head and gave it to the Prophet and
I said, "This is the head of the enemy of God, Abu Jahl."

Muhammad was happy and said, "Swear by God who has no partner that you
12
Is it his own head?" And he thanked God for the death of his enemy.

According to another narration, the second Muslim killed the young Abu Jahl while he was in the middle of
People were walking to be killed. One of the killers explains why "I
I knew that he had mistreated the Prophet of God. By God in whom my soul is
It's his hand, if it were my destiny to see him, I wouldn't let him go until
"When one of us is killed, they go to the Prophet of Islam after the killing."
"Who killed him?" Muhammad asks.
They both answer, "I killed him."

Muhammad finds a way to resolve the dispute and asks them: "Do you
Have you cleaned your swords?" They reply that no, then Muhammad
He examines their weapons and declares, "Without a doubt, you killed both of them."
13
The slain Eid and the booty belong to Amr bin Jamah, who was one of the murderers.



127

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The bodies of those who were cursed are thrown into the pit. A witness to
"I remembered: "Later I saw the bodies of all those who had been killed in the Battle of Badr.
They were thrown into the pit, except for the body of Umayya, because he was a fat man and
When they were dragging him, his body parts were torn apart before they were thrown into the pit.
"It was separated." 14 Then Muhammad called them out of contempt for the people of Goodal and asked them a question.
The diviner asked about the bodies: "Is what God promised you, made of water,
"Did you find out? I found out that what God told me is true," he was asked when he
"Why do you speak to bodies?" he replied. "You cannot do what I do."
15
"I say you understand better than them, but they can't answer me."

Allah fights for the Muslims.

The victory in the Battle of Badr was a turning point for the Muslims. This victory was a
The legend and the cornerstone of a new religious movement became known. Muhammad even received a revelation.
Who announces that an army of angels will be sent to defeat the Quraysh for the Muslims.
They joined – and this help will also be available in the future for Muslims who are loyal to Allah.
"Surely Allah will help you in [the war] against Badr, when you were unable to do so."
Then fear Allah, that you may be grateful. And when you say to the believers,
Is it not enough for you that your Lord has supported you with three thousand angels sent down?
Slow. Yes, if you are patient and righteous and with that same enthusiasm [and roar] on
If you fight, your Lord will support you with five thousand angels.
"(Surah 3, verses 123-125) Allah said to Muhammad: "When
Your Lord revealed to the angels, "I am with you." Then those who
They have believed, so stand firm, I will soon strike terror into the hearts of the disbelievers.
Then strike their necks and cut off all their fingers. This [punishment] is for the body.


128

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
It is because they rebelled against God and His Messenger, and everyone who opposes God and
"And if His Messenger opposes Him, then surely Allah is severe in punishment." (8:12-13)
Next, by encouraging the angels to defeat the enemies of Allah and Muhammad, one of the justifications
It has been used primarily for beheading hostages and prisoners of war.

Ibn Ishaq says that Muhammad received another revelation that some of
"He sent the non-Muslims who fought with the Quraysh to hell.": Kasani
Those who wronged themselves, [when] the angels take them away, they will say,
In what state were you? They will answer, "We were among the weak on earth." They will say, "We were among the weak on earth."
Were it not that the earth of Allah were spacious enough for you to migrate therein, then their abode would be Hell.
"And [Hell] is the ultimate evil destination" (4:97)

Even another revelation from Allah emphasizes that piety, not military might, is the
"It led to victory in the Battle of Badr: "Indeed, in the clash between the two groups,
It was a sign [and a lesson] that a group fought in the way of God, and another [group]
They were disbelievers who saw [the believers] as twice their own, and God knows who
He will confirm with his help. Surely, in this [event] there is a lesson for those with vision.
"It is a lesson" (3:13) Allah warns the Quraysh that in their attempt to attack
There are no more and you tell them that no matter how many there are, they will come again.
They will be defeated (8:19).

Also, in another part of the Quran, it is claimed that Muslims are mere tools.
They were defeated in the Battle of Badr. Even the arrow that Muhammad fired at the Quraysh was deflected by him.
"You did not kill them, but God killed them." And you did not kill them, but God killed them.
Because you threw [sand at them], you did not throw it, but God threw it [yes, God]


129

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
He did this to defeat the disbelievers [and thereby test the believers with a good trial.]
"Try, for God is Hearing, Knowing" (8:17). And God grants such victories to
Pious Muslims will give even if they face obstacles more severe than the Battle of Badr.
"O Prophet, urge the believers to fight, if there are twenty of you."
If you are patient, you will overcome two hundred people, and if there are one hundred of you, you will overcome
"A thousand of the disbelievers will be victorious, for they are a people who do not understand." (8:65)

These themes have been recurring in jihad literature throughout the centuries from the dawn of time to the present.
It is: Piety follows military victory. Allah sends angels to help in war.
He sends believing Muslims and they will overcome even the strangest obstacles.
The victory at Badr is still influential in history. For example, when Sir
Beheading of American hostages by Nicholas Berg in May 2004 Iraqi jihad leader
Islamic militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi calls on people to fight a great battle: "Is it time for that?"
It has not yet come to pass that he has taken the path of jihad and taken up the sword of the Prophet of Prophets.
Take it?...The Prophet ordered his army to behead the prisoners in the Battle of Badr.
16
"And draw them...and he is a good example for us."

The issue of spoils

Allah rewarded those to whom He had granted great victory with booty.
It was a great deal for them – so much, in fact, that it led to a dispute over the spoils.
Such a division threatened to force Allah to decide on the division himself.
Ghanim speaks and devotes an entire chapter of the Quran to the Battle of Badr:
The eighth chapter is called Al-Anfal, which means the spoils of war. Allah
Muslims are warned not to imagine that the spoils belong to anyone other than Muhammad.


130

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"They ask you, O Prophet, about the spoils of war. Say, 'The spoils of war.'"
It is for Allah and His Messenger. So fear Allah and make peace with one another.
"And obey God and His Messenger, if you are believers" (8:1)
Muhammad divides the spoils equally among the Muslims, keeping one-fifth.
He keeps it for himself:

And know that whatever you take as booty, one-fifth of it is for God and the Messenger.
And for [his] relatives, and for orphans, and for the needy, and for the wayfarer, if it is for God and
What will He do to His servant on the Day of Separation [of Truth from Falsehood], the Day when the two parties meet?
They were confronted, "We have revealed: 'You have believed, and Allah has power over all things'" (8:41).

This was because of a special privilege that Allah had given to Muhammad. Muhammad explained
He says: "I have been given fifty things which no prophet before me was given."
"It has not been done." There was also the fact that "Allah has made me throw
Fear has overcome me in the hearts of my enemies, and the spoils have been lawful for me.
It is.

Muhammad used this privilege at Badr when two of the most important
His companions, Abu Bakr and Umar, discussed what to do with the prisoners.
They oppose him:

"The Muslims today (i.e. on the day of the Battle of Badr) killed seventy people and freed seventy people."
They were captured. The Prophet of God said to Abu Bakr and Umar: What is your opinion about these prisoners?
What is it? Abu Bakr said: They are our own religion. I think you
You must release them after taking the part. This is a source of power for us over the
"They will be disbelievers. It is entirely possible that Allah will guide them to us."

131

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Of course, the tax would have increased the spoils for the Muslims, but Omar opposed it.
Did:

Then the Messenger of God asked Umar: What is your opinion, O Ibn Khattab? He said: O
Messenger of God, I do not agree with the belief of Abu Bakr. In my opinion, you should
Give us to behead them. Give Aqil to Ali and so-and-so to so-and-so.
Me and...they are the leaders of the opposition and their veteran soldiers.

Muhammad sided with Abu Bakr, but the next day, Umar was shocked when Muhammad and
He saw Abu Bakr crying. He asked, "O Messenger of God, why are you and
"Are you crying with me?"

Muhammad replied: "I am sorry for what you did to your companions to take some of the prisoners."
It has happened, we cry. Show me the torment that was inflicted on them.
"And it was this close to this tree for me." And he went to a tree nearby.
The Prophet of Islam referred to the torment of Hellfire, because Allah
He had taken Omar's side and revealed to Muhammad that "No prophet deserves
It is not permissible to take prisoners [to take the prisoners from the enemy] unless it is in the land of
"Kill them completely." Allah sent Muhammad because of his desire to take the spoils of war.
Instead of doing what Allah wants for him, he will rebuke him.

"It is not fitting for a prophet to be taken captive [to take the lead from the enemy]."
Unless he completely kills them on earth, you will not get the enjoyment of this world.
You desire, and God desires the Hereafter, and God is the Invincible, the Wise. If in
What you have taken is not a decree from God. Surely, a great punishment awaits you.
Then eat of the lawful and pure things which you have taken as booty, and fear Allah.

132

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"You know that God is Forgiving, Merciful." (8:67-69) 18 According to Ibn Ishaq, from that
So countless Muslims have taken to heart the concept that killing enemies is
19
Allah is the religion that reveals the religion that Allah wants to reveal.

Muslims have transformed from a small and isolated community into a force that the Arabs despised.
The priests had to open an account on it. They started throwing
Terror in the hearts of their enemies: "And whatever you have of force and ready horses,
Mobilize so that with these [provisions] the enemy of God and your enemy and [the enemies]
Fear others besides them whom you do not know, but Allah knows them.
And whatever you spend in the way of God, it will be returned to you in return.
"You will not be wronged" (8:60)

The Battle of Badr was the first practical example of what the Islamic doctrine of jihad
It is recognized.




The Jews of Qaynuqa

Muhammad, excited by his victory, increased his attacks. During a
From these attacks on the pagan tribe of Qatfan, he had
While resting, he was surprised by an enemy warrior. The warrior asked him
"Who will defend you against me today?" he asked.




133

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The Prophet of Islam coldly replied, "Allah," and with this answer, the warrior
He throws his sword to the ground. Muhammad then quickly gets up and defeats him.
He finds it and asks, "Who will defend you against me?"

20
Jangjoo replied, "No one," and then he declared his faith and became a Muslim.

During this time, Muhammad's behavior towards the Jewish tribes of the region became harsher.
His call to Islam is more focused on punishments inflicted on this world, that is, by Muslims.
He emphasized that punishment would be in the hereafter. Allah revealed to Muhammad that he was permitted to
"Break your pact with these groups, fearing their betrayal.": The same ones
With whom you took a covenant, but they break their covenant every time, and they fear [God].
So if you overtake them in battle, then punish those who
"Be careful of them, that they may take heed." (8:57-58)
Receiving this revelation, he said: "I fear the Banu Qaynaqa', a Jewish tribe that
21
They had once tricked him. He decided to take action against them.

The Prophet of Islam walked with long strides towards the center of the Qinqa' market and
The crowd declared: "O Jews, be aware that God will not take vengeance on you."
Take what you took from Quraysh and then become Muslims. You can say that I am a prophet.
I am the one who has been sent to you – you have written it in your copy of God's covenant with
"You will find." He emphasized with a revelation from Allah: "To those who disbelieved
Say, "You will soon be defeated and [then on the Day of Resurrection] will be gathered in Hell."
You will be and what a bad bed it is. Surely in the clash between the two groups for you
It was a sign [and a lesson] that a group fought in the way of God, and another [group]
They were disbelievers who saw [the believers] as twice their own, and God knows who


134

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
He will confirm with his help. Surely, in this [event] there is a lesson for those with vision.
"It is a lesson" (3:10) These two armies were, of course, the Muslims and the Quraysh in the Battle of Badr.

The Jews of Qinqa responded with insults, and the Prophet of Islam became so angry that he
His hope that the Jews would accept him as a prophet was dashed: "Oh!
Muhammad, it seems you think we are your people.
Don't be fooled into thinking you're on the side of the people who don't care about war.
They know. By God, if we fight you, you will find that we are real men.
22
We are here!"

Muhammad's forces besieged Qinqa' and demanded their unconditional surrender.
They proposed. But there was a united front among the Muslims, and now some of them
They came to Muhammad and pleaded for the Jews. Muhammad wanted everyone to
Kill the men of that tribe 23. Despite this, a Muslim (one of the hypocrites)
Abdullah bin Ubayy said to Muhammad, "O Muhammad, treat our customers kindly."
"Do it." Muhammad ignored him, so Abdullah repeated his request until
The Prophet of Islam turned his back on Abdullah. Abdullah bin Ubayy recklessly grabbed Muhammad's collar.
He took it and, as narrated by Ibn Ishaq, "The Prophet became so angry that his face turned black."
"Muhammad said to him, "Curse you, let me go."

But Abdullah replied, "No, by God, I will not let you go until
That he treats our customers with kindness. Four hundred thousand bereze and thirty hundred thousand
With armor he protects me from all my enemies, do you want them to be one?
"Are you going to kill me today? By God, I fear that something bad will happen." Muhammad then
He accepts his request and agrees to spare the lives of the Jews of Qinqa'.


135

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
He did not accept it on the condition that they give their booty to the Muslims and leave Medina.
And they did it immediately.

Also, Muhammad was unhappy with Abdullah's alliance with the Jewish tribes. Here he
He received a key revelation regarding the governing relations between Muslims and non-Muslims:
"O you who have believed! Do not take the Jews and the Christians as friends [for yourselves] [who]
Some of them are friends of others, and whoever of you takes them as friends,
They will be. Yes, God does not guide the wrongdoing people. You see those who
There is a disease in their hearts, they hasten to befriend them, they say.
We fear that a calamity will befall us. We hope that God will grant us victory from Himself.
Or did he bring about another matter, so that [as a result of them] from what was hidden in his heart
24
"They will regret it."




Anger at Jews and Christians

Abdullah bin Ubayy's request to save the lives of the Jewish tribe was particularly humorous.
Muhammad was not pleased and he became more angry towards the Jews. A revelation came to Muhammad with
Allah's curse descended on the Jews and changed the content of previous revelations and declared
"So [as a punishment], the covenant: 'Most of them cannot be trusted.'"
We cursed their defeat and hardened their hearts [so that]
They distort words from their context and distort part of what is said.
They were forgotten and you are always aware of their betrayal.
Except for a few of them [who are not traitors], after them death and the eye
"Confess, for God loves the doers of good." (5:13) Forgive them, O God, and give them hope.

136

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"Do you desire that [they] should convert to Islam?"
They believed, even though a group of them used to hear the word of God, then reject it later.
"They distorted his understanding, and they themselves knew it" (2:75).

A Christian representative from Najran came to discuss theology with Muhammad.
They come to him and the Prophet of Islam does not spare patience towards them. He
He is particularly angry about Jesus' claim to be the Son of God, because he
He often repeated - "God forbid that he should take a child, he is a sinner, for he has done such a thing."
If you will it, you will call it to exist, and it will immediately exist.
(19:35) Muhammad once again corrects the mistakes of the Christians:
Those who say that God is the Messiah, son of Mary, have certainly disbelieved. Say, "If
[God] wills that the Messiah, son of Mary, and his mother, and all who are on earth,
A sentence that leads to destruction. Who has authority over God? Obedience.
To Allah belongs the heavens and the earth and all that is between them. He does whatever He wills.
"Christ was not God, and he was crucified." (5:17)
It was not - and Muhammad blamed the Jews for boasting about crucifying Christ.
"And they said, 'We killed Christ Jesus, son of Mary, the prophet of God,' and
Now they did not kill him nor crucify him, but the matter was disputed among them, and
Those who disagreed about him were definitely in doubt about it and nothing
They have no knowledge except that they follow conjecture, and they certainly did not kill him."
(4:157)

Muhammad, showing little understanding of the Christian teaching on the Trinity in Revelation
Another declares that Jesus himself denies this when he was sent by God.
The question is: "And [remember] when God said, 'O Jesus, son of Mary, do you


137

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
He said, "You told people to worship me and my mother as two gods instead of Allah."
Your Grace, it is not fitting for me to say [about myself] something that is not my right.
If I had said it, you would have known it. You know what is in my soul.
"I do not know what is in your nature, for You are the Knower of the unseen." (5:116)

So how did Christians come up with this idea? Because they learned from Jesus, who actually
"And those who said, 'We are Christians,' were far from them."
[Also] We took a covenant, but [they] gave a part of what was given to the body of Anders.
They forgot, and We have cast enmity and hatred between them until the Day of Resurrection, and
"Soon Allah will inform them of what they used to do and what they used to create" (5:14).

Muhammad called both Jews and Christians to Islam, and Islam
As a correction to contemporary Christianity and Judaism and a restoration of the original message
Moses and Jesus knew: "O People of the Book, Our Messenger has come to you."
That many things from your [heavenly] book which you had covered up for
You will be forgiven and many [of your mistakes] will be forgiven for you.
From Allah has come light and a clear Book. Allah chooses whomever He pleases.
Follow it, for through it [the book] you will be guided to the paths of health and success.
He Himself leads them out of darkness into light and onto the straight path.
"He guides them" (5:15-16)

Conspiracy and deceit

After the Battle of Badr and the attack on the Jews of Quraysh, the Prophet of Islam expressed his anger
He noticed a Jewish poet named Ka'b ibn al-Ashraf, who, according to Ibn Ishaq,
"He had composed some tearful verses insulting the nature of Muslim women." 25Mohammed Khashmeghin

138

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
He asks his followers, "Who is it that killed Ka'b bin al-Ashraf for the sake of hurting Allah and His Messenger?"
26
"Shoot?"

A young Muslim named Muhammad bin Muslimah asked: "O Messenger of God, are you
"Do you want me to kill him?"

The Prophet of Islam replied in the affirmative, and Muhammad ibn Muslimah asked again:
"Permit me to tell a lie to deceive the Kaaba."

The Prophet of Islam once again violated absolute moral principles and allowed: "You
"You can lie."

Then Muhammad ibn Musallam went to the Ka'bah and complained about the Prophet's tongue.
"He said: 'This man (i.e. Muhammad) asks us for charity and has caused us suffering.'"
"So I came to borrow something from you."

Ka'b was not surprised and said, "By God, you are tired of him."
27
"Aid!"

"Muhammad bin Musalma performs his role well until the time of the murder": Coming
This man (i.e. the Prophet) is a great test for us. He is the cause of enmity among the Arabs.
It has been and they have united against us. The roads for our families to
Personal needs and work have become unbearable, and our families are in hardship.
There are many 28". Muhammad bin Musallam then proposed a deal to the Kaaba.
He tries to get help from him to break away from Islam and its Prophethood:
"Now that we have followed him, we do not want to leave him unless


139

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
When we see how his end will come. Now we ask you to help us.
"You will feed a camel once." This will not be the last time a Muslim has offered
And he turns away from Muhammad and his religion in speech and becomes interested in trade.
It shows with a non-Muslim. And this will not be the first time that these non-Muslims
They are deceived and even lose their lives.

Ka'b agrees with Muhammad ibn Musallam's plan, but on one condition: "It must be
I'll lend it to you, but you have to pawn something with me...then
"Bring your wife to me as a slave."

Muhammad bin Muslimah was a believer: "How can I bring my women to you?"
"Now that you are the most beautiful Arab?" In the end, they agreed to other terms.
They reach an agreement and Muhammad bin Musalma promises to return that night. He
He returns with his foster brother and some others. Muhammad bin Musalma with business
The Kaaba is believed to be in his presence. Muhammad ibn Muslim, who is as old as
He had gotten close enough to the Kaaba to kill him, pretending to want to smell the perfume.
"Try the cube on his body." I have never smelled a more pleasant smell than this.
"I was... will you let me smell your head?" Ka'b agrees:
The companions of Muhammad bin Muslim also smelled it. Then he took the Kaaba and
His companions order: "Take him." They kill Kaaba and his head.
They pick him up and rush towards Muhammad. 29. When Muhammad hears the news of his death
30
He shouts: "Allahu Akbar" and thanks God for the death of his enemy.

The angry Jews told Muhammad, "Our leader has been treacherously killed."
According to Ibn Ishaq, Muhammad replied: "Remind them of their sin and


140

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
How he incited and encouraged them to fight the Muslims and how he
They have caused harm. 31". The murderer, in other words, had succeeded in sedition –
A defense that today's Islamic Mujahideen also use to justify their actions.
Do it.

After the killing of Ka'b, Muhammad issues another order: "Any Jew who
"Stretch out your hand." 32 This was not a military order: the first victim was a merchant.
There was a Jew named Ibn Sunnah, a man who had commercial and social relations with Muslims.
The murderer, Mahisha, was rebuked by his brother, Hawisha, who was not yet a Muslim.
The Egyptian governor said to his brother, "Whoever ordered me to kill him,
"He has also given the order to cut off your head."

Brother Haweisa was impressed: "I swear to God, your religion has brought you to this."
"This is a wonderful religion, no matter how hard it is." And he then became a Muslim. 33 The World
Even today, he witnesses such astonishing things: Muhammad Robert Heff,
A Canadian man who had converted to Islam, who was informed last week
He was involved in terrorist operations and was arrested in June 2006, explained.
It shows that he personally experienced a period of extreme depression, during this
His father had his parents killed if they opposed his commitment to Islam.
They would do 34. So you can understand the story of these two brothers.

Elsewhere, Muhammad allows one of his followers to use deception to
He used the killing of his other enemy, Sufyan bin Khalid, because he had betrayed the Prophet of Islam.
Satan had compared: He said to his terrorist: "When you see him,
"You will be terrified and troubled, and you will remember the devil."


141

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The mission was accomplished and Sufyān died. Muhammad praised the killer and gave him a staff.
35
And he said, "Go to heaven with it."

Quraysh answers.

The Quraysh were on a quest for revenge after being humiliated in the Battle of Badr. They were a group of three.
A thousand people gathered on top of a thousand Muslims in the mountains near Mecca in the name of Ahad.
They brought them. Muhammad, wearing two suits of armor and holding a sword in his hand, led the Muslims into battle.
He led the battle. Muhammad was confident. When one of the Muslims asked him
He asked, "O Messenger of God, should we not seek help from our allies, the Jews?"
Muhammad replied, "We don't need them." 36 Or perhaps he thought that the relationship
Things had gotten worse with the Jews.

This time, the Quraysh were very determined and the Muslims were crushed. Muhammad himself
He fought with his men and captured a Quraysh warrior named Ubayy bin Khalaf.
He injured his back. Years ago, Abi had mocked the new prophet in Mecca.
"O Muhammad, I have a horse named Aud, which I feed a lot every day. I
"I will kill you while I am riding on him."

Muhammad replied, "Well, if God wills, I will kill you."
Ubayy remembers this when he returns to the Quraysh camp with a wound in his neck.
He came and said, "By God! Muhammad has killed me." When the Quraysh answered
They said, "By God, even if you lose your heart, nothing will happen to you."
"Abi insisted," he said to me in Mecca, "that he would kill me, and by God."
"If he had spit on me, he would have killed me." He carried me on his back to Mecca.
37
It could have happened, and it happened just as Muhammad had predicted.

142

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Aisha later narrates that the Muslims were initially victorious at Uhud, but
Their ranks collapsed due to supernatural intervention: "The devil, whom God cursed."
Slowly, he shouted in a loud voice: "O worshippers of God, be careful of your backs!" and
In this way, the front ranks of the Muslims turned back and joined the rear ranks.
38
"They fought."

In this commotion, the face of the Prophet of Islam was also injured and one of his teeth was broken.
Even on the battlefield, a rumor spread that he had been killed. Muhammad
He washed his face and called his companions to revenge: "God's wrath for those who
"They made the Prophet's face bloody." 39. Then he again heard that Quraysh
"They denied the man whom Allah had chosen," he lamented. "How can people
"Can those who injure their own Prophet succeed?" 40But here Allah
He advises him that "none of these things are in your power, O God."
"He will either forgive them or punish them, for they are wrongdoers." (3:128)
Abu Sufyan, the leader of the Quraysh, humiliated the Muslims. Muhammad reiterated that
Quraysh is truly oppressive. He told his army commander, Umar, that the answer
"God is great and mighty. We are not equal. Our dead are in heaven."
41
"And your dead are in Hell."

When Muhammad saw the body of his uncle Hamza, he vowed to avenge him.
Hamza had been killed in battle and his body had been gruesomely mutilated by a woman.
The name of Hind bin Utbah was changed to Salakhi, who cut off Hamza's nose and ears and gave them to him.
He ate his liver. He took this revenge for the killing of his father, brother, uncle, and son.
His greatness was taken by the Muslims. Muhammad continued this cycle of revenge.
Mutawalli had no hesitation: "If God grants me victory over Quraysh in the future, I will


143

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"I will slaughter their men." And then, with anger and sorrow, his followers also
They said this: "By God, if God grants us victory in the future, we will
42
"I will beat them in a way that no Arab has ever done before."

Similar incidents are also full of news today. After the jihadist attacks
Islamists in Iraq or Israel, the Mujahideen, any counterattack by
American or Israeli forces with furious attacks, and swift and violent retaliation.
They threaten. Ever since Muslims began imitating the Prophet's warlike ways,
They fought, this was their usual behavior. This is like Christianity.
Turning your back on yourself is not to be slapped, but with more insolence.
It is to act against the enemy.

Hamza's killer, Wahshi, knew that Muhammad would not kill him if he became a Muslim, and
He cannot take revenge. Wahshi declared his martyrdom and went to see the Prophet of Islam.
Muhammad asked him to tell the story of his uncle's murder. He said, "Woe to you,
Hide your face from me and never look back at me. 43. "A savage is what you do."
He did as he was told and was able to save the Prophet's life.
The beast also shows the distinction between believers and unbelievers, as
Muslims still hesitate to kill other Muslims (unless, of course, they
(They consider them apostates or apostates.) But the lives of non-Muslims have become very comfortable.
It will be.

Dispelling Doubts After the War of Unity

We should expect that the defeat in the Battle of Uhud would shake the faith of Muslims.
Because after the Battle of Badr, Muhammad repeatedly emphasized that Allah Himself was with him.

144

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Muslims will fight. But Muhammad was more prepared for the revelation. This time the subject of this
It was because the Muslims were defeated because they disobeyed Allah and more
They looked to the spoils for victory (3:152). Another revelation urged the Muslims to fight.
He encourages them bravely and assures them that their lives are in danger.
It will not be until the day when Allah has decreed their death:

"And no soul dies except by the leave of God [God of Death] as a decree."
And whoever desires the reward of this world, We give him thereof.
And whoever desires the reward of that House, We will give him from it, and soon they will be grateful.
"We will reward him" (3:145)

Allah reminds Muslims of His past help and promises future help.
Their command requires:

"And surely Allah helped you in [the battle] of Badr, when you were powerless, after
Fear Allah that you may be grateful. When you say to the believers, "Are you
It is not enough for you that your Lord supports you with three thousand angels sent down.
Slow. Yes, if you are patient and righteous and with that same enthusiasm [and roar] on
If you fight, your Lord will support you with five thousand angels.
"(3:123-127)".

Once again, a pattern is established: when things go against the Muslims
Muslim leaders inevitably emphasize that this is because they
Not enough Muslims. In 1948, Sayyid Qutb, the great thinker,
The Muslim Brotherhood, the first modern Islamic terrorist group, announced that
The Islamic world, "It is enough to take a look to see our social situation."

145

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"The worst possible form," however, "we continue to preserve our entire spiritual heritage."
All the blessings of our intellect and all the solutions that have been revealed to us regarding these issues.
We have set aside our fundamental principles and teachings.
We have abandoned it and turned to democracy, socialism or communism. 44
In other words, the only way to success is Islam, and all failures are due to
It is the release of Islam. Allah promises the Muslims after the Battle of Uhud that
Victory will come again soon, if they do not turn their backs on him and do whatever he wants.
Non-Muslims should reject it (3:149-151).

The harsh and rigid divine relationship between victory and domination on the one hand and
Defeat and disobedience on the part of the other after the victory of the Muslims in another war.
The Battle of Khandaq was decisive in 627. Muhammad again received a revelation that victory would be his.
He attributed supernatural intervention to Allah: "O you who believe!
Remember the favor of Allah upon you when the armies came towards you.
So We sent against them a violent wind and hosts which you did not see, and Allah
"And He is Ever-Seeing of what you do." (33:9)

                                                        Expulsion of Banu Nazir

Not long after the Battle of Uhud, some members of the Jewish tribe
The Banu Nazīr join forces to kill Muhammad, and when he is killed by one of them,
Their houses were being destroyed, and large stones were being thrown at his head to kill him. Some
The Muslims had been informed of this conspiracy and had warned Muhammad. Muhammad
Instead of asking the Nadir leaders to hand over the sinners,
Banu Nazr sends a message: "Leave my land and live with me no more."


146

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"Do not do it. You have betrayed." His messenger was Muhammad bin Muslimah (the murderer of Ka'b bin
Ashraf) was a man from the Aws tribe in Medina who had previously made a treaty with the Banu Nazr.
But when the Nadir men objected and reminded him of his covenant, Muhammad bin
The Muslim replied, "Hearts have changed and Islam has abrogated the old covenants."
45
"It has been announced."

Abdullah bin Ubayy and some other so-called hypocrites insisted on not going to Banu Nazira.
They promised to come to their aid if they were attacked.
Relying on that, they said to Muhammad: "We will not leave our place, so each
"Do what you think," Muhammad said, placing the responsibility on the enemy's shoulders.
One of the characteristics of jihad fighters throughout history has been their devotion to Muslims.
It says: "The Jews have declared war." 46 Allah revealed to Muhammad and made him
He made sure that the hypocrites were as wrong about the Jews as they were about Muhammad.
He promised victory over Banu Nadir. Did he promise victory over those who
He had not given before them. Do you mean the Jews of Qinqaa? Allah means
It strikes terror into the hearts of the Jews.

The Prophet of Islam orders his Muslims to march towards this tribe and
besiege them. During the siege, he ordered the burning of the palm trees.
He gave Nadir 47. The surprised Nadir asked him: "O Muhammad, you are such a destroyer."
You have forbidden it and you have blamed the people for it. Now why do you cut down the trees?
Are you cutting down and burning our palm trees?" 48 Allah confirmed Muhammad's action with a new revelation.
He explains: "What you cut down from the date palm trees or [did not touch] them is
"Their roots were in the place of the gods, by the command of God, to humiliate the disobedient."



147

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Islamic apologists repeatedly cite Muhammad's prohibition against waste and extravagance.
They do – but they do not mention his own failure and Allah's protection.

The siege of Banu Nazr lasted two weeks before they agreed to the separation.
Muhammad allowed the Jews to carry whatever they could on their camels.
49
They wanted to take it with them, but they wanted to hand over all their weapons.
Some of the people of Banu Nazr destroyed their homes 50. What the Jews did
They could not take with them what became Muhammad's personal property as booty.
He distributed it among the emigrants. 51 He also used some of this money for expenses.
He kept his personal belongings and supplies for future wars. Omar later recounts
"The property left by Banu Nadir was given to the Prophet by Allah."
And... these properties belong specifically to the Holy Prophet. He received them from their annual income.
He pays his family's expenses and uses what's left to buy horses and weapons.
He spent 52.5 million on jihad. Muhammad is known as a man of simple life: he lived in
He did not live a luxurious life; instead, he spent this wealth on jihad.

In a revelation, Allah tells Muhammad that it was a divine abomination that Banu Nadir
He failed and they are all condemned to divine punishment in Hell.
He who among the People of the Book disbelieved in the first exodus [from
[He went out of Medina] You did not think that they would go out, and they themselves were in doubt.
Their fortresses will be a barrier to them from God, and [for] God, from where they imagine.
They would not have been able to enter upon them and cast fear into their hearts [so that] they themselves would have
They destroyed their homes, themselves and the believers, so O you who see!
Take heed. And if God had not decreed this exile for them, He would have certainly
"He punished them in this world, and in the Hereafter they will have the punishment of the Fire" (59:2-3).


148

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Now it was the turn of the remaining Jews of Medina to taste the wrath of Muhammad.




149

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




Chapter Eight

To strike terror into hearts



* Battle of Khandaq and Jahal Talbi, the Mabana of Emperor Muhammad

                           * Muhammad and the massacre of Bani Qureiza tribe

* Mistreatment of women from the Mustaliq tribe

* Peace of Hudaybiyah

* The Siege of Khaybar and the Poisoning of Muhammad

* Battle of the Trench




150

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
After the expulsion of the Jews of Banu Qaynaqah and Banu Nadir from Medina, some of those who remained
Those who remained turned to the Quraysh and proposed an alliance against Muhammad and the Muslims.
They gave. Quraysh was ready to accept this offer and asked them: "O Jews,
You are the first of the People of the Book and you know the basis of our dispute with Muhammad.
Is our religion better or his religion? "1 The Jews, who, despite these events, are still waiting
They replied that your religion is better. When Muhammad heard this, Allah said to him,
He revealed: "Have you not seen those who have been given a portion of the [Heavenly] Book,
They believe in Jabbat and Taghut and say about those who disbelieve:
These are more astray than those who believe. These are the ones whom God has cursed and
"Whoever Allah curses, you will never find for him any helper." (4:51-52)

Muhammad, who had been informed of this new alliance, ordered a trench to be dug around Medina.
Dig. This great work requires a lot of physical strength. Despite this,
Many of the Muslims who were forced to do this left that camp. Only a few
Some of them obtained permission from Muhammad to be exempted from this duty, and some others simply
They made a false excuse. Muhammad received another revelation to the Muslims.
He warned that true Muslims are those who follow the commands of the Prophet of Islam.
Obey:

"The believers are only those who believe in God and His Messenger, and
When they met with him on business, they refused to ask his permission.
They will not die. Indeed, those who seek permission from you are those who believe in God and
The Messengers believe, so they ask your permission for some of their affairs.
Give permission to whomever you wish and ask for forgiveness from Allah.
He is the Forgiving, the Merciful. Addressing the Prophet among yourselves is like addressing


151

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Some of you appoint others, God knows who among you.
They flee [from him] like thieves, so let those who disobey his command fear.
"Lest a calamity befall them or a painful punishment befall them" (24:62-63).

Such events strengthened Muhammad's position of superiority and command among Muslims.
When the Muhammad cartoons were published in the World Press Photo in late 2005
And early 2006 witnessed Muslim riots, many non-Muslims were shocked by the reaction.
The angry Muslims were surprised. At least some of this anger must be attributed to this
The truth is that in the Quran, time and again, Allah is concerned about His Prophet and is ready to
It is for his benefit to command. In the minds of those who consider the Quran as a revelation
True, they accept this, which places Muhammad in a special position.

Muhammad, while digging a trench, about the conquest of the border regions of Alhamatian Arabia
This story seems very mythical, but what is it?
Whether the imagination comes from Muhammad or from the Muslim community, the plans of
The imperialism of the Muslims of the beginning of Islam towards the lands surrounding Arabia
It shows that one of the first Muslims, Salman the Persian, while digging
He hit a large rock that he could not move. Salman explained.
"The Prophet, who was nearby, saw my difficulty with that stone," he says.
He came down to the ditch and took the pickaxe from me, and while he was breaking the rock,
"So lightning fell from it." 2The light of it took everything two paths of black stone.
Muhammad shouted the victory cry of Islam, that is, he said, "Allahu Akbar" and "All Muslims praise him."
They repeated it out loud. Finally, Salman asked Muhammad, "What are you for me?"
Dearer than my father and mother, the meaning of this light under your doorknob that you used to knock on every time.
"What is it?"


152

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Muhammad replied, "Did you really see it, Salman? The first time was with the body."
That God has opened the way for me to conquer Yemen, and a second time to Syria and
"The third time, towards the west and the third time towards the east." 4. Or according to some similar narrations from the same
In the story, Muhammad declares that "When I struck the first blow from this palace light
The cities of Al-Hira (in southern Iraq) and Madain al-Kusra (the winter capital of the empire)
Sassanid (The teeth of dogs began to shine, and Gabriel informed me that
"My nation will be victorious over them." The second shining in this way is the Kaf
He made the people of the Byzantine Empire light and the third mountain of Sinai
Yemen 5. Gabriel promised Muhammad victory in each flash and repeated it three times.
"Rejoice, you will be victorious." And then Muhammad replied, "God willing."
Thank God, the promise of the one who is truthful and righteous! He will give us peace after this suffering.
"The promise of victory has been given."

Decades later, when the countries mentioned in this legend were in reality
They were conquered by the warriors of jihad, an ancient Muslim used to say: "By God
I swear, wherever you want to conquer, you will not conquer, and you will not conquer until the Day of Judgment.
You will not conquer a city unless God has previously given the keys to that city to Muhammad.
"6". But all these conquests were in the distant future. At that time, only sieges
The city of Medina was on the agenda.

The Quraysh, along with another tribe called the Qatfan, besieged Medina (which
The Islamic tradition is called Ahzab (but the moat prevents invaders from entering the city).
However, the Muslims were unable to break the siege. But the problem was even
To make matters worse for the Muslims, a Jewish tribe in Medina called the Banu Qurayzah,



153

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
He broke his covenant with the Prophet of Islam (perhaps after seeing the fate of the Banu Qayinqa').
7
and Banu Nadir) and cooperated with Quraysh.

Muhammad sent spies among the Banu Qurayza to find out if what he had heard was true.
Was it true and did they really break their covenant with him? The bad news was confirmed.
And he stood alone amidst the fear of his people and said: "God is the greatest! Joy!"
8
"Be careful, O Muslims!"

The siege lasted three weeks, and the situation of the Muslims became more dangerous.
It was so terrifying that a Muslim, in bitterness, was moved by Muhammad's demands.
For another conquest and his plan for two great powers on the border of Arabia, that is, the empire
Iran, Khosrow Shah, and the Eastern Roman Empire remembered the land: "Muhammad promised us
It used to be that we should eat from the treasures of Khosrow and Caesar, while today none of us
We are not safe when we go to the beach!" 9 Hypocrites about Muhammad's inspirations
Considering the current difficult situation of the Muslims, they spoke in a sarcastic tone. Muhammad responded
He received this revelation from Allah: "And when the hypocrites and those who are in
Their hearts are diseased. They say, "Allah and His messengers promised us nothing but deception."
"They did not give" (33:12)

Muhammad accused the hypocrites of weakening the Muslims and plotting treacherously with the enemies.
Islam accused and received revelation in support of itself (13:33-14).
Muhammad said to tell his people that leaving the service is useless: "Tell them: If you
Avoid death or being killed, but this avoidance will never benefit you, and in that
"You will not enjoy except for a little while" (33:16)




154

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Meanwhile, Muhammad sent someone to negotiate peace with this proposal:
To the Quraysh, to give them one-third of the date harvest of Medina if they
They lifted the siege, but then a Muslim named Sa'd ibn Mu'adh
Rafi recalls the past high position of Muslims and says that this is the source of
It was a shame that the Muslim people of Medina were in a more subordinate position than the Quraysh.
"Let us worship them as they were idolaters": Now that
God has given us Islam and guided us with it, and has filled our hearts with His presence.
We have become strong, should we give them our wealth? We need to do this.
We don't have any! By God, we will only give them swords until they
"May God decide between us and them."

Muhammad replies: "As you wish, and the idea of paying tribute is no longer there."
10
It does not follow.

As the siege continued, a Quraysh warrior named Umar
He calls on Muslims to fight hand-to-hand and promises them Muhammad's Paradise.
He scoffed: "Where is that garden you say you enter when death strikes in battle?"
Will you? Can't you send a man to fight with me? "It should be mentioned
He did so because Muhammad himself came from Mecca, the home of the Quraysh, and the age of the
He had a Muslim family. He was the cousin of Ali, son-in-law and cousin of Muhammad,
Ali was later a heroic figure in Shiite Islam. Ali replied, "I swear to God that you
"I call to Islam and its Prophethood."

Omar did not accept and did not dismount. But he added: "O my nephew, I
"I don't want to kill you."


155

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Ali showed less emotion. He replied, "But I want you."
"I will kill you" and he did the same thing. 11. Islamic loyalty is deeper than blood.

The Qurayzah agreed to attack the Muslims from one side, while the Quraysh from the other.
The other had besieged them. But events turned in favor of the Muslims. Na'im bin
Masoud, one of those who had recently converted to Islam, came to me with a proposal.
Muhammad comes: Since his people, the Qatfans, did not know that he was a Muslim
It is possible that Muhammad was able to use him to gain advantage over his enemies.
Muhammad immediately seized the opportunity and said, "You are the only one among us,
So go and divide our enemies, if you can, because war is
"It is a trick." 12. Na'im goes to the Jews of Qurayzah and reminds them.
They are more vulnerable than the Quraysh and the Qatfan because they are more
The women and their property are in this vicinity while the Quraysh are opening up to Mecca.
The Quraysh had to make sure that the Quraysh would defend them.
They will fight: They should take some of the leaders of Quraysh as hostages.
They believe that after the defeat of Muhammad and the Muslims, they will be released. The reason for this proposal is
He accepted, and in this order, Na'im rushed to the leaders of Quraysh and Qatfan and told them
He said that the Jews had other ideas about their union and wanted to talk to Muhammad.
They have gone to Muhammad and beheaded some of the people of Quraysh and Qatfan.
They have proposed and Muhammad has also accepted. Then Naeem concluded: "If
The Jews came to you and asked for some as disciples, but no one was allowed to
"Do not send to them."

Shortly afterwards, Abu Sufyan, the leader of the Quraysh, sent a message to the Qurayzah warning them to attack.
It must begin immediately. But Qarizah objected that today was Saturday and Sabbath.


156

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
And also, "We will not fight against Muhammad until you give us hostages."
Give us some things that we can keep safe until Muhammad's work is finished.
We fear that war will break out against you and you will be afraid of it.
Suffer severely and ignore the war and return to your land and help us.
"Leave me alone here." Of course, this answer was the one Naeem had injected.
He strengthened them and they rebelled against the hostages. At this time, the wind
The wind blew hard and it became impossible for the Quraysh to keep their tents up.
And they lit a fire.

This was enough for Abu Sufyan. He said to his men, "O Quraysh, we are in
We are not a permanent camp, our horses and camels are dying. Banu Qurayzah
He has broken his covenant with us, and we have heard bad news from them. You can
Look at the violence of the wind, which has left us neither fire nor cooking nor
"Chadiri. I intend to return." 14 The Quraysh left the vicinity of Medina and returned.
Shortly after, Qatfan also returned. Tazwir Ninth broke the siege and Islam was saved.
Found.

Settling accounts with the Banu Qurayzah

After the successful Battle of the Trench, the angel Gabriel appeared to Muhammad.
He made sure to settle accounts with the Jews of Qurayzah. Narrated by Aisha:
"When the Messenger of God returned from the battle that day, he put aside his weapon and went to the bathroom.
Then Gabriel, whose head was covered with dust, came to him and said:
You have put down your weapon! By God, I am still armed. Prophet




157

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
God said: Where should I go? Gabriel said: This way and towards the tribe of Banu
15
"Qurayzah pointed. Then the Messenger of God went out to them."

When Muhammad's army reached the Qurayzah fortifications, Muhammad attacked them with
He uttered phrases that, when speaking of today's Jews, also refer to Islamic Mujahideen.
They use the same familiar phrases - language that also finds its way into the Quran:
"O brothers of the goats, has God turned away from you and wants to take his revenge on you?"
"The Quran says in three places (7:166, 5:59-60, 2:62-65) that
God has turned the Jews who broke the Sabbath into monkeys and pigs.

The Qurayza Jews tried to calm him down: "O Abu al-Qasim, you are a barbarian."
"But Muhammad's character was not such that he would calm down. He told the Muslims who were with him
He said that the warrior who had just passed by on the white mule was Gabriel. "The Tower and the Baroui"
"It has shaken the Quraish and cast terror into their hearts." Muslims
They besieged Qurayzah for twenty-five days until, at the insistence of Ibn Ishaq:
"Their strength was exhausted, and as Muhammad had warned, God was in their hearts."
16
"They are frightening."

The intention of instilling fear in their hearts could be options that Kaaba has
Assad, their leader. His first suggestion was to accept Muhammad and
"Convert to Islam," because they swear by God that it is clear to you that He
A messenger has been sent, and you will find its sign in your own copy, and then
Your life, property, women and children will be saved. 17". This was the second choice.
To kill our wives and children so that we leave nothing behind and to
Let's go to the war of Muhammad. The third option is that today is Saturday and the Sabbath.


158

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
On this day, let us ambush Muhammad and take him by surprise. All three options are available.
He rejected it but chose to be besieged by the Muslims.

After some deliberation, Muhammad decided to decide the fate of the Qurayza tribe.
He entrusted Sa'd ibn Mu'adh with the task of leading his army. Sa'd was a member of the Aws tribe, who
Previously, they had been allied with the Jews of Medina, so perhaps Muhammad thought that the Qurayzah
Perhaps he will accept his neutrality, or at least it will appear that way.
Which of Muhammad's followers can no longer accept Muhammad's rule because of his dependence?
He questioned the closeness that the people of Medina usually had with the Jews. When Sa'd
As he mounted his donkey, Muhammad said to him, "These people are waiting for your vote to be accepted."
"They are."

Saad replied: "I order that the Mujahideen must kill them and
"Take their women and children captive."

This opinion pleased the Prophet of Islam. "O Sa'd, the ruling about them is like the ruling
"You, the King of the Heavens, have decreed." 18 He confirmed Sa'd's decree as if it were Allah's. 19
Later, when Sa'd died, Ibn Ishaq narrates that Gabriel came to Muhammad.
And who is the prophet who, when he died, moved the throne of God and
They have become saddened by his death and longing to see him.

Saad's sentence was carried out as prescribed, and Mahd himself actively participated in its execution.
Narrated Ibn Ishaq: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went to the market of Medina (which is still
(Pabrajest) and dug several pits there. Then he led the men of Qurayzah there.
He sent them and as they came in groups, he cut off their heads and threw them in the ditch.
"Throwing." One of the most vicious enemies among the people of Qurayza, Hayy, shouted.

159

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"God's command is true. One book, one command, and a general slaughter against the children."
20
"Israel is written." Then Muhammad severed his head from the tension.

With Sa'd's judgment for killing men and enslaving women and children, one
A captive named Atiyah al-Qarzi explains how the Muslims came to know
Who is a man and who is not (i.e. not a child): "I am in between"
I was a prisoner of Banu Qurayzah. They would examine us and those whose hair grew
They killed the Kurds and kept them alive otherwise. I was in between.
21
"I was someone whose facial hair hadn't grown yet."

Ibn Ishaq mentions the number of those who were massacred as 600 to 700 people.
Although some other figures are 800 or 900 people. 22 Ibn Sa'd says that
"Their number was between six and seven hundred people" 23 Just as Muhammad the people
They were brought to Muhammad in groups. Someone asked Ka'b bin Asad what had happened.
"It has fallen." The troubled leader replied to Qariza: "Do you still not understand? Do you
Can't you see that those who lead us never stop, and those who are taken away
24
"They will never open."

This mass killing of an excessive number of people has been mentioned in various hadiths. One of the
The hadith summarizes Muhammad's behavior with the three Jewish tribes in Medina as follows:
"The Banu Nadir and the Banu Qurayzah fought (in violation of their peace treaty), then
Muhammad exiled the Banu Nadir and allowed the Banu Qurayzah to remain in their place until
That they fought against Muhammad again. He then killed their men and women and
He divided the children and their property among the Muslims. But some of them
Muhammad came and they became believers and converted to Islam. He expelled all the Jews from Medina.


160

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They were the Jews of Banu Qaniqa, the tribe of Abdullah bin Salam and
25
"The Jews of Banu Harisa and all the other Jews of Medina."

Allah also sent revelation and the Talu'iha refers to mass killing: "And those who
He brought down the People of the Book, who had sided with [the polytheists], from their strongholds, and
You struck terror into their hearts, killing a group and taking another group captive.
"(33:26) And Muhammad received another revelation that victory belongs to Allah alone.
He gave a ratio (33:9-11).

Meanwhile, Muhammad's trust in Allah was strengthened when things became difficult for the Muslims.
Muhammad was placed in a good position. Allah revealed to him that he would give the Muslims
He told them to imitate him: "Indeed, there is a great hardship for you in [following] the Messenger of God."
Best is he who hopes in God and the Last Day and remembers God much.
It does.

Muhammad, who also saw himself as worthy of his exalted position, received revelation
He received in it Allah has mentioned the Muslims who were acquainted with the Prophet and his wives.
He criticizes those who are close to him:

"O you who have believed, do not enter the Prophet's chambers except for
You are permitted to eat food without waiting for it to be cooked.
Be that as it may, you entered when you were invited, and when you ate food.
Disperse yourselves, for you have become engrossed in speech. This [behavior] of yours is the Messenger's.
He will be ashamed of you, and God is ashamed of the truth.
He will not do it, and since you asked the wives of [the Prophet] for something, ask them from behind a curtain.
This is purer for your hearts and their hearts, and you have no right, O Messenger of God.

161

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Do not kill him and do not marry his wives after his death.
"That [deed] is always a great [sin] in the sight of God" (33:53).

Finding an excuse for a mass murder

The massacre of the Banu Qurayzah is quite understandable as a cause of shame for Muslims.
Some Muslim apologists have tried to deny this fact or to
A number of events have been described. One of the scholars of Islam, named Arafat,
He published a long article in 1976 about how this massacre
It has never happened, for the simple reason that it is against Islamic law.
26. Given the fact that Muhammad was present on other occasions, the principles
To put yourself aside, this is a strange argument. An example is when
His invaders kill the people of Quraysh during the holy month, or his great interest
To Zenit Bint Jahsh. Other defenders of the betrayal of Banu Qurayzah to justify the verdict
Saad and Rezayet Muhammad refer to this ruling. Yahya Amrik in the Life of the Prophet
Muhammad says: "Muhammad did not intervene because he had given the right to judge to someone else."
"He was entrusted with the word of Muhammad in confirmation of the ruling of Sa'd and Allah in the Quran.
27
It doesn't work.

Karen Armstrong argues that "it is not right to associate this event with
"And in the early seventh century, from a leader
28
"An Arab should not be expected to show mercy to a traitor like Qarizah."
This is true, but Armstrong has missed the point, in this case to
Like other events in Muhammad's life, he remains an example and model of behavior for all.
Muslims of Qalmdad (33:21) In July 2006, when Islamic forces


162

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They prepared to go to Gaza to rescue an Israeli soldier held hostage by Hamas.
"They should have returned it," a British Muslim writer declared in a forum.
"I am tired of these dirty Israeli dogs," he said. "God has destroyed them."
Curse and destroy everyone like the fate of the Banu Qurayzah. 29. No one will save him.
He was not accused of bringing seventh-century models into the present day.

Women of the tribe of Mustaliq



Muhammad was now the undisputed ruler of Medina and, as the Prophet of Islam,
enjoyed special economic privileges. A hadith narrates that "the people used to
They were to give some of their date palm trees as a gift to the Prophet.
That he conquered Banu Qurayzah and Banu Nadir, and in this way he brought their gifts to
They themselves returned 30". But his authority, his power over Arabia, was not yet unrivaled.
He received revelation regarding the Banu Mustaliq, an Arab tribe allied with the Quraysh.
He realized that they were gathering strength against the Muslims, so he
He prepared the Muslims to attack them. According to Ibn Ishaq, Allah "Bani
They defeated the entire army and killed some of them, and they captured women, children, and
31
"He gave their property to the Prophet as booty."
One of the fighters of Islam named Bou Saad Al-Khuzadri says: "Some women
Arab beauties "were among the captives of Banu Musatl." We desired them because
We were suffering from the absence of our spouses, but at the same time we were also eager to receive the gift.
"We were willing." The Quran allows them to have sex with these captured female slaves in
They may have sexual intercourse, but if they want to use women as
They keep slaves, they cannot get any money for them. Then, Abu Sa'd


163

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
He explained: "We decided to have sex with them, except with
"The cessation of descent" (that is, no child was born to them). But Muhammad told them that this was necessary.
"No": You don't have to do that, because every soul that is born
He will be born again until the Day of Judgment. 32". Pregnancy and childbirth are for God alone.
They were.
From a twenty-first century perspective, this is one of the most problematic aspects of Muhammad's life.
As a great example of behavior: treating women as spoils of war and
Without considering their wishes. Even a guidebook on Islamic law
The contemporary records that when a woman is captured, her previous marriage
It is automatically nullified. 33. If a fighter in jihad captures a woman, that woman
She doesn't have the right to say no. The number of women who have been raped throughout the Islamic century is staggering.
And cannot be counted; and even today, with women often treated as commodities in the world,
Islam behaves. Of course, this phenomenon is reflected in its cultures and societies to varying degrees.
It shows a difference. But in the Islamic world, it is difficult to take root in this view.
They did it because they had the Prophet's order to do so.
Muhammad also participated in the capture of his wife and took a woman from among the people of Banu.
The term was seized, but in a way that at least sometimes shows that under
Under special circumstances, a female captive must say yes to her own destiny. Among female captives
There was a beauty named Juwayriya whom Muhammad married off to one of his cousins.
The name of Talib bin Qais bin Shammas was chosen by lot. Juwayriya thought that this
Her current position is lower than her position as the daughter of the absolute boss. So
He went to Muhammad and asked, "Can you explain the situation I have brought?"
You see what I have become. My lot has fallen to Talib, and he can take my share.
"Take it and I ask for your help in this matter."



164

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Muhammad replies: "Do you want anything better than this? I will accept your religion."
"I have divorced her and I will marry her." His marriage to Juwayriya made him a complete
The family did; on this day, in honor of this marriage, a family of one hundred people
They were enslaved by Muslims and were freed. 34. Muhammad was the name he had previously given.
He changed his name to mean "pious". The Prophet of Islam said: "Friend
"I did not hear that he had taken a pious woman into slavery."35


Abdullah bin Ubayy and the prayer for the enemies


Abdullah bin Abi Manafiq, a hypocrite who called upon the Prophet of Islam to defend the Jews of Qinqa' and
Nazir had been annoyed, and shortly after this battle, he openly challenged Muhammad. He
He called upon the people of Medina to rise up against the Muslims who had come from Mecca and
"Drive them out of the city," he declared. "Nothing between us and these refugees."
The Qarish is not compatible, as the old saying goes, if you feed the dog,
It will swallow you up. By God, when we return to Medina, the weaker one will be the one who will swallow you up.
"He will drive out 36." But when several Muslims reported this to Muhammad,
They gave it, Abdullah bin Ubayy denied it and Muhammad also accepted his denial. But Umar
Abdullah bin Ubayy doubted and went to Muhammad and suggested, "Permit me to
"Let me break the neck of these interests."



Muhammad refused: "Let him go so that people will not say that Muhammad is killing his followers."
"Then Abdullah's son came to Muhammad and suggested that his father
This young man hoped in this way to save himself from the fate of the



165

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
To avenge his father's murder by killing the man Muhammad sends, Najat
Give:

I have heard that you want to kill Abdullah bin Ubayy because of what was said about him.
You heard me, draw. If you must do so, then order me to
I will do it and I will bring his head to you, because the people of Khazraj have no
No man is known to be more loyal to my father than I am, and I fear that if you
If you order someone else to kill my father, my soul cannot allow the murderer to
Let him go free among my people and I will kill him, so my act of killing him is
38
There will be a believer for an unbeliever and I will go to hell.

Once again, Islamic loyalty is declared to be more important than blood and lineage. But Muhammad
He rejects the offer and says, "No, but let us treat him kindly."
39
"And while he is with us, let us be his companions."

Muhammad's kindness did not influence Abdullah bin Ubayy, and he opposed
Muhammad continued until his death. But Muhammad never left him and even
His grave prayed for him. Umar, who was with him, was astonished: "O Messenger of God, is this
"You pray for this man, but hasn't God forbidden you to pray for him?"

Muhammad answers him by explaining a verse from the Quran: "What forgiveness for them?"
Whether you will or will not forgive them [it is the same] even if they repent to you seventy times.
Ask for forgiveness. God will never forgive them because they are against God and
"His messengers disbelieved, and Allah does not guide the transgressing people" (9:80).
Umar said that Allah had given him a choice by telling him what to pray for and what not to pray for.


166

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
He said that he knew that praying seventy times was also useless, but for more than seventy times
40
There is hope.

But Allah put an end to this arrogance of Muhammad with a new revelation: "And never again will
No man among them should pray or stand over his grave, because they are worshippers of God and
"His messengers disbelieved and died in transgression" (9:84).

41
Muhammad then released prayers over the graves of those who opposed him.
It is interesting to note that when Yahya Amrik narrated the story of Muhammad's problems with Abdullah ibn
He retells Abi, concluding that "he soon fell ill and was bedridden."
Death, Muhammad came to visit him and asked God to forgive him and those around him.
They wondered if Muhammad hoped that God would forgive him. 42 "America has no
It doesn't say anything about blaming God that Muhammad prayed for forgiveness on the grave.
Abdullah received it.

Peace of Hudaybiyah

However, another key principle of Islam is associated with the Peace of Hudaybiyah and the events surrounding it.
The formula was formulated. In the year 628, Muhammad had a dream in which he
Pilgrimage to Mecca is – Pilgrimage to Mecca is a pagan ritual that Muhammad insisted on
It may be part of the Islamic faith, but for some time it was necessary for the Quraysh to control Mecca.
But this time he prepared the Muslims for the pilgrimage to Mecca. The Quraysh expelled him.
He met with the city and the two sides reached an agreement to end the war for ten years.
They left, and this truce was called the Peace of Hudaybiyah.




167

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Some Muslim leaders were unhappy with this peace. Above all, they
They had broken the Quraysh siege of Medina and were more powerful than ever.
Should they trade their military power just for the sake of going on pilgrimage?
An angry Umar went to Abu Bakr and said, "Isn't he the Messenger of God and we
We are not Muslims and are they not polytheists? So why should we be concerned with something that is
"Our religion is a source of humiliation, shall we agree?" The two went to Muhammad and
Muhammad tried to reassure them: "I am the servant of God and His Messenger."
43
"I will not act against his command, and he will not let me fail."

But it certainly does not seem that this peace will be to the benefit of the Muslims.
When the agreement was written, Muhammad called Ali and told him to write:
In the name of God, the Forgiving, the Merciful. But on the side of the Quraysh, Suhayl bin Umar stopped him.
He made it up and said, "I don't officially recognize this, but write it in the name of God."
Muhammad told Ali to write down what Suhail said.

But Suhail did not listen. When Muhammad continued the agreement, he told Ali to write
"This is what Muhammad, the Messenger of God, agreed with Suhayl ibn Umar.
"It is." Suhail objected: "If I had testified that you are the Messenger of God,
"You will not fight me. Write in your name and your father's name." Muhammad shouted again with a fierce voice.
His follower, Zayd, told Ali to write this agreement as follows:
Sohail wanted to.

In the end, the peace was written as follows:

This is what Muhammad, son of Abdullah, agreed to with Suhayl, son of Umar.
They have agreed to stop fighting for ten years and during that time

168

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
This period, people can be safe and avoid hostility in a way that
If someone comes to Muhammad without the permission of his guardians, he will be handed over to those guardians.
They will return, and if anyone from those who are with Muhammad comes to the Quraysh, they will turn him
They will not turn back to Muhammad. We will not be enemies of each other, and there will be nothing hidden or hidden.
We will not have any suspicions about each other. Someone who wants to make a pact with Muhammad
He should do so and anyone who wants to make a treaty with Quraysh, including
Those who come in must do the same.

Quraysh added: "You must stay away from us this year and go against our will."
You will not enter Mecca, and next year we will make way for you and your companions to enter.
You will stay in Mecca for three nights. You can carry weapons of war and
44
"You may have a sword at your side. But you cannot bring anything more."

Muhammad persuaded his men to accept these terms of peace, which seemed completely detrimental to the Muslims.
He was astonished: Those who fled from Quraysh and joined the Muslims
Those who seek refuge will be turned back to the Quraysh, while those Muslims who flee and return to
The Quraysh who took refuge were not brought back to the Muslims.

Peace was made, and Muhammad emphasized that the Muslims, despite the apparent
The opposite shows that they have won this peace. He is a new revelation from Allah.
He received: "We have granted you victory, [what] a glorious victory" (1:48).
Muhammad was also inspired to say, "And God has promised you [other] abundant blessings."
It is given that you will soon take them and this [victory] is for you.
And He made the hands of the people shorter than you, so that it may be a sign for the believers.
"And guide you to the straight path" (48:20)


169

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
If his followers were still doubtful of their victory, their fears were soon calmed.
A woman from Quraysh named Umm Kulthum joined the Muslims in Medina. Her two brothers
They came to Mahd and asked him to send them "in accordance with the treaty between him and the Quraysh."
Hudaybiyah" was returned 45. But Muhammad refused and Allah also prevented it. Allah
Muhammad received a new revelation: "O you who have believed, as women are with the believers,
When the emigrants come to you, test them. God knows best about their faith. So if
You recognized them as believers, then you turned them towards the disbelievers.
"Do not look back" (60:10)

Muhammad broke the treaty by refusing to return Umm Kulthum to Quraysh. Although
Defenders of Islam throughout history have claimed that Quraysh broke the first covenant,
Before anything else, it was this incident that alerted the Quraysh that the Muslims had broken the covenant.
They are broken. America claims that Muhammad, relying on a little legal sophistry,
He had done this. He had made a peace treaty that the Muslims would kill any man who came to them.
They will return the one who comes and not just any woman. 46 Even if this is true, just as
As America admits, Muhammad soon approached other men from Quraysh as well.
He himself admitted, so he had definitely broken the covenant. 47 Breaking the covenant in this way
It reinforces the principle that nothing is good unless it is for the benefit of Islam.
And nothing is evil except what hinders Islam. When this peace is formalized
was thrown away, Islamic jurists explicitly declare that peace treaties are
Overall, it was only a temporary basis for ten years, and this peace was only for this purpose.
It was hoped that during this period the Muslims would have the opportunity to strengthen the weakened Muslim forces.
Strengthen them to fight better.

Subsequent events clarify the ambiguous aspects of this story.


170

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Attack on Khaybar

Allah promised the Muslims who were dissatisfied with the peace of Hudaybiyah great spoils:
He has promised you abundant spoils [other] that you will soon receive.
" (48:20) As if to act on this saying, Muhammad went to the oasis of Khaybar
He made a raid, an oasis where the Jews lived, and many of them
They were exiled to Medina. One of the Muslims later recalled: "Then
The Prophet addressed the people who had been waiting until dawn. It was his custom if
You hear the sound of prayer. He would hold hands, and if not, he would continue to move. We
We reached Khaybar at night and the Prophet spent the night there; when morning came, he heard the sound of
Don't pray, then he rode and we rode with him... near our castle.
We saw the workers of Khyber coming out at dawn with their shovels and baskets.
When they saw the Prophet and his army, they shouted: Muhammad is here with his forces.
They came and fled. The Prophet said: Allah is Great, Khaybar has been destroyed. When he reached the area
People, we got there, that morning was bad for the people who heard this news.
48
"They were."

The Muslim attack was merciless. According to Ibn Ishaq, "the Prophet, as
Enemies would come to his aid, plundering every bit of property and destroying the fortress.
The fortress was conquered 49. "Ibn Sa'd reports that the battle was fierce": the polytheists
They killed many of Muhammad's companions, and he himself killed many of them.
"They killed ninety-three Jews." 50...Muhammad and his men prayed the Fajr prayer.
They performed the Fajr prayer, which they perform at dawn before the sun rises and then
They entered Khaybar. The Muslims immediately plundered the wealth of the people there.
Ibn Rabi', a Jewish leader from Khaybar, who is thought to be a wealthy man like


171

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The trust in his hands was brought to Muhammad. Knowing the location of the treasure by heart
He denied it, but Muhammad pressed him: "Do you know that if we find out?"
"We'll kill you if you have treasure?" He said with a smile, "Yes."

A quantity of treasure was found. To find the rest of the treasure, Muhammad ordered the
"Torture him until you find out what he has." One of the Muslims of the Fire
He put it on Kanana's chin, but Kanana did not tell him his secret. When he was dying,
51
Muhammad bin Muslimah, the murderer of Ka'b bin Ashraf the poet, beheaded him.

Muhammad agreed to send the people of Khaybar into exile, just like
What he did with the people of Benue was to take as much as they could carry and
52. But he ordered them to leave all the gold and wires. He
53

He intended to exile everyone, but some who were farmers begged him to
They wanted him to let them stay there and in return, they would give him half of the annual harvest.
Receive 54. Muhammad accepted: "I will give you permission to stay until
"You will stay here." Muhammad warned them, "We will expel you at any time."
"We'll get out of here." 56. They had no more rights except to start over.
There should be little goodwill and compassion for Muhammad and the Muslims. And indeed, when Muhammad
He discovered another treasure that some Jews had hidden.
He ordered the women of this tribe to be taken into slavery and the lands of the criminals to be seized.
Kurd 57. A hadith mentions that: "The Prophet had killed their warriors and
58
"He had taken their children and women captive."

Later, during the reign of Caliph Umar (634-644), the Jews who remained in Khaibar
59
They remained exiled to Syria, and the rest of their lands were also seized.


172

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Poisoning Muhammad

A Jewish woman from Khaybar named Zainab bint al-Harith prepared a meal and
He brought it to Muhammad. He had roasted a lamb and poisoned it. Muhammad was
He bit into it, but then spat it out and said, "This bone is telling me that
"It is poisonous." His companion, Bashir bin Al-Barah, had eaten that food before and a little later
Because of that man. Zainab bint al-Harith confessed and said to Muhammad: "You know that
What have you done to my people? I told myself that if he is a king, he will save himself from
I will save his hand, and if he is a prophet, he will know what he has done.
"For this reason, that woman confessed to Muhammad's prophethood, and Muhammad
61
He spared his life. 60 According to another hadith, Muhammad killed him.

The poison had a strong effect on him. One of the Muslims observed the incident afterwards:
"I saw the effect of poison on the palate of the Messenger of God" Muhammad on his deathbed 62
A year after being poisoned, he said, "Now you are in mortal pain from what happened to your brother."
I feel the Khaybar 63. And so he cried out to Aisha: "Oh!
Aisha! I still feel the pain of the food I ate in Khaybar and
64
"This time my veins are being torn apart by this poison."

Another narration explains that the poisoning was not the work of one woman alone.
Rather, it was a Jewish conspiracy that, as always, was fueled by the hatred and conspiracy of the Chinese.
According to this version of the narration, after the conquest of Khaibar, the Jews
Muhammad is given a roasted calf as a gift, which has been poisoned. Muhammad
He senses the conspiracy and orders: "All the Jews who are here
"Bring it to me." When this was done, Muhammad said, "I want to


173

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"I'll ask you a question. Will you tell me the truth?" After their affirmative answer
He asked them, "Who is your father?" Hearing the answer (which is mentioned in the narration)
(Muhammad said, "You are lying" and told them the correct answer.)

The Jews accepted that Muhammad was right. He then asked, "If you
"If I ask you something, will you tell me the truth?" They answered in the affirmative again.
And he asked, "Who are the people of Hell?"

According to this narration, they replied: "We must remain in the fire of Hell for a while."
"Stay a little longer and then you will take our place," Muhammad replied.
"You are cursed by God! By God, we will never take your place."
"We will not take it." He continued: "Will you tell the truth if something happens to you?"
"They assured him that they would tell the truth." Muhammad asked:
"Did you poison this sheep?"

They admitted that they had poisoned it. They gave the same answer as Zainab.
Dad: "We wanted to see if you were a liar who would do this."
We will release your evil, and if not, you are a prophet and poison will not harm you.
65
"Return".

                                                          Ghanaim Khyber

With the conquest of Khaibar, the time for the division of the spoils arrived. Aisha recalls that
When the Muslims entered the oasis of Khaybar, they shouted, "Now until
66
"We will eat dates wherever we can!"



174

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
One of the warriors of Islam, Duhayyah ibn Khalifa, came to Muhammad and said, "O
"O Messenger of God, give me a slave girl from among the captives." The Prophet of Islam agreed.
He said to the maidservant, "Go and choose any maidservant you want." The maidservant
He chose the name Safiyyah bint Hayy 67. Safiyyah was the daughter of Hayyy bin Akhtab, who
He encouraged the Jews of Banu Qurayzah to break their alliance with Muhammad. Muhammad
He had killed Hayy along with the rest of the Qurayza men. Safiyyah's husband was Kananah bin Rabi'.
The same man who was tortured and killed by Islamic militants. When Sifiya
She surrendered, her beauty attracted the admiration of the Muslim warriors, who
The Prophet said: "We have not seen anyone like him among the prisoners of war." 68. A man
He added: "O Messenger of God! You have given Safiyyah to Dehiyyah, and she is the chief lady of the
69
"He is from the Qurayza and Nazir tribes, he is not worthy of anyone but you."

Muhammad called Dahiyyah and Safiyyah. When the Prophet of Islam saw Safiyyah, he called Dahiyyah.
He said, "Take any other slave girl you want besides her." Then Muhammad immediately
He freed Safiya and married her himself because she agreed to marry him.
Islam turned and was able to transcend the status of a slave. That night of Saffiyah
He put on a wedding garment and gave a wedding feast. On the way
The caravan stopped as soon as they left the oasis, leaving Khaybar.
He erected a tent and consummated his marriage. 70 Of course, from Safiyya's feelings that
She was once the daughter of the ruler of the Jews, and now, in one day, she became a widow and then a
There is no mention of her being captured and then married to Muhammad!

Khyber has become a code name for today's jihadists. This song is among
The Palestinians and their allies are also beloved: "Khaibar, Khaibar, O Jews,



175

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"Muhammad's army will return." This means that they have no other intentions.
They have nothing but the destruction of the State of Israel, like the Jewish stronghold in Khaybar.




176

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




                    Chapter 9

Victory through terror and terror
* Muhammad becomes ruler of Mecca

* Muhammad orders the killing of apostates

* Muhammad becomes ruler of Arabia

* Muhammad calls neighboring rulers to Islam

* The Journey to Tabuk and the War Against Christians and Jews

* The main importance of the tax on non-Muslims

* Muhammad's illness and death



177

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
* After Muhammad: The Division in Islam

                                                              * Conquest of Mecca




Now the situation is ripe for the conquest of Mecca and Muhammad's triumphant return to his homeland.
The place from which he claimed to be the Prophet of Allah was ready. He ordered his men
to prepare for the Meccan pilgrimage and prayed: "O God, grant me eyes and ears
"Take the Quraish so that we can surprise them in their land." 1This
It was a near-miss by a Muslim who had sent a letter to Quraysh and
Muhammad's plan was to inform, but the Muslims intercepted the letter.
The traitor, Hatib bin Abi Balta'ah, explained that he was a devout Muslim, but
He had relations with the Quraysh, including a son there. Muhammad forgives him.
Because he was one of the heroes of the Battle of Badr. Then he received another revelation from Allah.
He understands that Hatib, as a Muslim, feels
He was a child of the Quraysh tribe:

"On the Day of Resurrection, neither your relatives nor your children will ever benefit you."
[God] will judge between you, and God is Seer of what you do. Surely for
You are in [following] Abraham and those who were of good conduct, when they were
Their people said, "We disbelieve in you and in what you worship besides Allah."
We are fighting, and between us and you there has been perpetual enmity and hatred until
Believe in Allah alone, except in the word of Abraham, when he said to his father.

178

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
[He said] I will surely forgive you, even though you have no choice in the matter with God.
I have no mercy for you, O Lord, in you we have put our trust and to you we have turned.
"The end is towards you" (60:3-4)

Then Muhammad, with an army said to consist of ten thousand Muslims, set out for
He set out for Mecca. 2. When the people of Mecca saw the size of Muhammad's force, they knew
That everything is lost. Muhammad, of course, had exaggerated in that too and
His men said that at night they would light additional fires. Many of the warriors
The prominent Quraysh leader had now gone to the desert, converted to Islam, and joined Muhammad's forces.
They joined. When they went forward, they saw Abu Sufyan, who had always been the leader.
Quraysh had opposed Muhammad. They allowed him to go to Muhammad's presence.
Abu Sufyan recited a poem for him, including the following lines:

I was lost in the darkness of the night.

But now a ray of truth guides me.

I could not guide myself, and God made him victorious over me, just like that.
It is because I drove him out with my power.

According to Ibn Ishaq, when he recited this verse, Muhammad sent him to
He hugged him and declared that you did it right. 3 But when Muhammad said
"Woe to you, Abu Sufyan! Will you not confirm this time that I am the Messenger of God?"
"Am I?" Abu Sufyan replied, "I still doubt this." Here is one of the
Muhammad's officers, in the name of Abbas, replied to Abu Sufyan: "Surrender and bear witness."



179

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
That there is no god but Allah, and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah, before
5
"That you will lose your head." Abu Sufyan also testified.

Apostates must be killed.

When Muhammad forcibly entered Mecca, Ibn Ishaq reports that "the people of
They converted to Islam willingly or unwillingly. 6. The Prophet of Islam instructed Muslims
They should only fight those or individuals who resist their advance.
- except for a list of those who were to be killed, even if they
They were found in the sanctuary of the Kaaba. One of them was Ubullah bin Sa'd, an early Muslim.
Muhammad had previously assigned him to write down the verses of the Quran; but he later abandoned the religion.
He turned back and returned to the Quraysh. They found him and brought him to Muhammad with his brother.
They brought it, and asked the Prophet of Islam for forgiveness. Abdullah repeated again, "The Messenger of Allah
"O God! Accept the allegiance of Abdullah." But Muhammad was not impressed. But for the third time, Muhammad
Accepted.

As soon as Abdullah left him, Muhammad turned to the Muslims in the room.
He turned and asked, "Was there not a wise man among you who, when I
"I withdrew my hand from accepting his allegiance. Should he stand against him and kill him?"

His companions were astonished and replied, "O Messenger of God, we did not know that you
"You have this in mind. Why didn't you give us a sign with your eyes?"

Muhammad said: "It is not fitting for a prophet to deceive with his eyes."
7
"It will be used."



180

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Apostasy from Islam has always been an unforgivable evil for Muhammad. When he
When the Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) arrived in Medina, some of the shepherds came to the city and accepted Islam. But
The climate of Medina did not please them, so Muhammad brought them some camels and a shepherd.
When they came out of Medina, they killed the shepherds and let the camels go.
They denounced Islam. Muhammad had persecuted them. When they were arrested
He ordered their hands and feet to be cut off (5:33). And their eyes to be gouged out.
They will be blinded by molten metal and left in the desert to die. Their plea for water
8
It should not be answered.

The hadiths clearly explain that the main reason for the severity of these punishments is
It was because they had turned away from religion. Muhammad made it clear to his followers
It was established that no Muslim deserves death except for the crimes of murder, adultery, and
Apostasy 9. He simply ordered: "Whoever turns away from Islam,
10
"Pull."

These facts tarnish the claims of the defenders of Islam in the West. Ibrahim Syed
"There is no historical evidence," said the president of the International Islamic Research Foundation in Kentucky.
There is no evidence that Muhammad or any of his companions killed anyone for the sake of
"They have sentenced apostasy to death." 11 Such claims can be a source of consolation.
There may be non-Muslims who prefer to believe that an attempt to kill a
An Afghan convert to Christianity, under the name Abdul Rahman, is simply against the rule of law.
Islam. Unfortunately, this claim does not match the facts of Muhammad's life.
Come on. These false claims remain unanswered only because Westerners don't need
They should learn about the actions and words of Muhammad - information that the actions
It makes Islamic states more understandable than the speeches of defenders of Islam in the West.


181

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
How many other people were in Mecca who were on the list of those who should
They were killed immediately: Abdullah bin Khattal, another apostate, or Hawirs bin
12
Nuqiz, who had once attacked Muhammad, and some others.

Muhammad in the Kaaba

When the city of Mecca was completely under Muhammad's control, he mounted a camel and
He went to the Kaaba. He found it full of idols - 360 in number - and he narrated from his Quran:
"And say, 'The truth has come and falsehood has perished. Indeed, falsehood is ever perishing.'" (17:81)
He ordered all the idols to be burned except for the one that was a symbol of Jesus and
Mary 13. Then he stood in front of the temple and declared:

Any claim of privilege, blood or ownership is waived by me except for the fee.
This is the shrine and the washing of pilgrims. Involuntary manslaughter by means of a whip or a whip, blood is the price.
For him, a hundred camels are worth forty of which are pregnant. O Quraysh, God bless you.
Polytheism and the worship of others have taken hold of the ancients. Man comes from man, and man from dust.

The leaders of Quraysh were gathered, listening eagerly and waiting.
That the Prophet of Islam would make known their reckoning. In the end, he turned to them and
He asked, "O Quraysh, what do you think I want to do to you?"

They replied, "You must have good intentions towards us." You are a brother.
"You are our true self and our brother's son."




182

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Muhammad also said: Go for yourselves, for you will remain free men. He
He preserved their lives and, according to the early narrations, "God put their lives in His hands."
14
He made a decision and they became his spoils."

Now the people of Mecca gathered to pledge allegiance to Muhammad. This was the moment of his mission.
There was a prophet, Muhammad, who had been exiled from his home eight years earlier, and now
He had set foot there again. One of his companions, Omar, was the oldest of all the people of Wadeh.
He ordered them to obey Allah and His Messenger. When the men had sworn allegiance, it was the turn of the women.
They came forward - including Hind bint Attaba, the woman who had attended her uncle's funeral.
The Prophet had exemplified Hamza in the Battle of Uhud. The Indians, fearful of Muhammad's punishment, turned to him.
She went with a veil and a headscarf. Muhammad gave her a set of Islamic moral rules.
He said: "Do not associate partners with Allah, do not steal, do not commit adultery, and the like." Muhammad
The woman's responses: She realized that she was India, and then India asked her.
He forgave him. When Muhammad said to him, "And you will not kill your children."
He said to Mahd, "I raised them when they were small, and you were the one who
You killed them on the day of Badr when they were grown up. So it is you who should
"Don't draw my children." This statement made Omar laugh.

This woman's allegiance was accepted, Ali gave Muhammad the key to the Kaaba, but Muhammad refused.
He turned to the key-holder of the Kaaba and said, "This key is yours, today, the day of faith."
"It is"15.

The day after the conquest of Mecca, one of the Muslims killed a pagan. Muhammad
Then he addressed the people, emphasizing the sanctity of Mecca and prohibiting killing within its borders.
Forbidden:


183

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
God made Mecca sacred on the day He created the heavens and the earth, and this
The holiest of holies will remain until the Day of Judgment. It is against the law for anyone to
Whoever believes in God and the Day of Judgment should shed blood or cut down a tree in this place.
Slow down... Someone said, "But the Prophet himself killed people in Mecca. Say, 'By God, he killed them.'"
He has given permission for this work, but He has not given you this permission... If anyone
After my stay here, he was killed, the owners of his blood have a choice:
16
They can take the killer's life or his blood money.

The Battle of Hunayn and the Rule of Arabia

Muhammad was the ruler of Mecca, but there were other major obstacles between him and ruling over the
There was a time when Malik ibn Awf, a member of the Thaqif tribe from the city of Taif,
South of Mecca, gathered forces for war with the Muslims. The people of Taif
When Muhammad took up his call to prophethood ten years ago, they
They had rejected and treated them with contempt. They were historical rivals of the Quraysh and
Thus, the Quraysh saw it as a source of humiliation that they had converted to Islam. Malik
He gathered a force and marched towards the Muslims. Muhammad led a force of twelve thousand.
A man went to his side and said, "Today we will not be defeated because of our numbers."
17
"Eat".

Two armies faced each other in a valley called Hunain near Mecca. Malik and
His men arrived earlier and occupied a better tactical position in that area.
The Muslims, despite their countless numbers, were scattered. They separated the rows.
They broke and fled. Muhammad shouted, "Where are you going, men? Come with me."
Come, I am the Messenger of God. I am Muhammad, the son of Abdullah. 18" Some of


184

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The Muslims took heart and gradually began to return – although with difficulty.
Countless casualties were suffered on both sides.

The Muslims were ultimately victorious, and the last major force that remained between the Prophet and
And they took control of Arabia. After the battle, Muhammad was inspired
He received another one explaining that Muslims were praying for unseen help.
"They were victorious": Then God sent down His peace upon His Messenger and upon the believers.
And He sent down hosts whom you did not see, and those who disbelieved.
"He punished, and that was the recompense of the disbelievers" (9:26)

When Malik was defeated, the Muslims later conquered Taif with less resistance.
On his way to this city, Muhammad stopped under a tree and
He wanted to make it his own, so he sent a message to the owner, "Or get out."
Come or we will destroy the wall of your house." 19. But the owner of that place came out
The soldiers attacked and the Muslims destroyed his property. 20 But Muhammad made efforts to
He converted the people of the tribes of Taif to Islam, and Muhammad was lenient towards them. He
Distribution of booty to some of those who had recently converted to Islam from Quraysh
He appealed to them in the hope that it would strengthen their union with Islam. But the behavior
His one-sidedness led to complaints from others. A Muslim rudely tells him:
": Muhammad, I saw what you did today... I don't think you're going to
"You have behaved fairly."

The Prophet of Islam did not pay attention to this saying: "If you do not find justice with me, then
21
"Where will you find it?"




185

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
In fact, Muslims have always found justice in Muhammad. His actions and words
It is an example of the highest model of behavior and in Islam there is only one absolute standard.
It is: Everything that is modeled after the Prophet, with the exception of incidents such as:
The signs of Satan, from which he repented, are good.

Call to Islam

The Prophet of Islam now faced little opposition and became the ruler of all of Arabia. He
Gradually, he turned his gaze to larger areas, to the neighboring lands of Pars and
Byzantium had an opinion. He had previously sent a series of letters to the rulers of great nations.
He had written to the people of Arabia and invited them to this new religion. He
Heraclius, Eastern Roman Emperor in Constantinople, wrote:

"So now I invite you to Islam, come into the embrace of Islam and you will be in
You will be safe; embrace Islam and Allah will give you a double reward.
But if you reject this invitation, you will be responsible for misleading the public.
22
"It was."

The content of this letter is also mentioned in the Quran: "Say, O People of the Book, come!"
We stand upon a word that is common between us and you, that we worship none but God, and
We do not associate anything with Him, and some of us take others as gods instead of God.
Then if they refuse [to this proposal], say, "Be witnesses that we
"We are Muslims and you are not" (3:64)

Heraclius did not accept Islam, and the Byzantines soon found out that
The warriors of Islam have no mercy on those who have not made such a choice.

186

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They will not. Perhaps Heraclius had some knowledge of this matter because, according to one
His hadith came to his advisor's attention after reading the letter and he stated: "If
If what you say is true, then the palace under my feet will be taken from me.
He took 23". According to some narrations such as Ibn Sa'd and others, Heraclius
He wanted to accept Islam! But because by doing so, the "nobles" would be pushed aside like wild donkeys
"They would flee, and their spears and crosses would be taken away." Then Heraclius
24
He abandoned this idea to preserve peace.

Muhammad did not receive any satisfactory response from Khusrau, the ruler of Iran.
After reading Muhammad's letter, Khusrau tore it up in contempt. When this
The news reached Muhammad, who asked Allah to destroy the Iranian Empire and its supporters.
"25. When Khosrow is destroyed, there will be no Khosrowite after him.
O God, in whose hand is Muhammad's life, grant both of them the treasure of grace.
26
"God will take you in his hands."

The Prophet of Islam made the development of the territory one of the duties of the new society.
He received a revelation from Allah that commanded Muslims to be above Jews and Christians.
Fight until they accept the superiority of Islam, and this is with the order of taking
money from non-Muslims) and discriminatory regulations against them, their subordinate position
He reminded them of Allah and the Last Day.
They do not believe and do not forbid what God and His messengers have forbidden, and
The believers will not be able to fight this battle until they attain [complete] humiliation.
Give details (9:29). He told his followers that he recommended that they turn to
Give Islam and if they join the army, ask them to serve as subjects of the government.
27
Muslims should pay tribute, and if they raise soldiers, go to their war.


187

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Jews and Christians who agree to pay the tax are oppressed by the people of Dhammah.
They were called Arabs, which means a people who have been protected and protected, and in
Arabic has both meanings. They are supported because they are the People of the Book and
They had received true revelations from God and were therefore, in terms of the situation,
Pagans are different from Hindus and Buddhists. Of course, historically, this
The last two groups were treated even worse, although in practice their Muslim masters were ultimately
They were given a position by the people of Dhamma (and they were sinners because they believed in Muhammad).
They rejected the title of prophet and the legitimate revelation they had received from God.
They have distorted.

Because of this sin, Islamic law has permitted Jews and Christians to
Islamic states should live but not be equal to Muslims. A Muslim jurist
Explains that the Caliph should: "Beware of those who oppose Islam"
They resist jihad. After that, they are considered as the people of Dhamma in the Islamic Ummah.
They live. Because Islam is the best religion. 28" (9:33). Although
Jews, Christians, and other non-Muslims were allowed to practice their religious beliefs.
They did so under such strict and restrictive conditions that
It reminds them of the condition of their second hand.

Muhammad also extended the Ahl al-Dhamma to include the Zoroastrians, an Iranian sect.
When a tribal chief who had recently converted to Islam asked him,
What should he do with the Zoroastrians and Jews in his kingdom? Muhammad replied: "Whoever
"Whether a Magian or a Jew remains, he must pay a tax." And to the Zoroastrians
He wrote a poem that laid the foundations for the Islamic notion that non-Muslims were impure.



188

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
are: Besides promising to pay the jizya, he told them that Muslims should not
29
Eat what they have slaughtered.

                                                          Tabuk attack

After ordering his followers to wage jihad against the Christians, Muhammad decided
He decided to show an example of it to his followers. In 630 AD, he
He ordered the Muslims to attack Tabuk, which was part of the Byzantine Empire.
But many Muslims were reluctant to do so. One of the
He came to Muhammad and apologized to him: "Will you allow me to
Stay here and don't be tempted, because everyone knows I have a strong attraction to women.
I have become angry and I am afraid that if I see Byzantine women, I will be unable to control myself.
30
"I am not."

Muhammad gave him permission, but then he received a revelation from Allah that the people who
Those who have such requests should be considered hypocrites: "And who is one of them?"
Those who say, "Let me remain" and "let me be tempted," are warned that they themselves will be tempted.
"Tribulations have befallen them, and Hell will encompass the disbelievers" (9:49).
Because of the exhausting heat of Arabia at that time of year, it was an excuse for a military campaign.
They brought it, and the revelation was revealed again: "For those who remain, to sit in their [houses]."
They rejoiced after the Messenger of God, and rejoiced that he had fought with his wealth and his life in the way of God.
They hated it and said, "Don't go out in this heat. Tell them if they find fire."
"Hell is more burning" (9:81)

This journey was indeed difficult, and when Muhammad and the Muslim force reached the camp,
When the Byzantines arrived in northwestern Arabia, they found that the military forces

189

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Instead of engaging them, the Byzantines avoid war. But this trip is for
There was none: Muhammad accepted the surrender of several tribal leaders of that region and agreed
They were forced to pay taxes and support the Muslims. One of them was a strong man.
Abd al-Malik was the Christian ruler of Duma. The jihad fighters led by Khalid ibn Walid
They captured him while hunting cattle; Abdul Malik's brother was killed in the conflict.
It happened.

The Muslims took the golden robe that Akidar was wearing and gave it to Muhammad.
They gave him a gift, and he said mockingly, "To God, in whose hands my life is,
Saad bin Mu'adh's handkerchiefs sewn in Paradise (Muslims who ordered mass killings)
The Jews of Banu Qurayzah (better than this) 31. Often by paying the tax.
He agreed, and Muhammad also died in his place. Shortly after, the Prophet of Islam
He returned to Medina and he maintained this command post (i.e. Medina) even after the conquest.
He saved Mecca.

The revelations that Muhammad received regarding Tabuk were among the most
It was very good towards Christians and Jews. This revelation claims that
Jews consider Ezra to be the son of God, just as Christians consider Jesus to be the son of God.
God knows and it is declared that both groups are cursed by God in this order.
(9:30) Allah specifically criticizes Christians:

"They have taken their scholars and monks and Christ, the son of Mary, as substitutes for God."
They took divinity even though they were not commanded except to worship the One God, who has no equal.
There is no god but He. Exalted is He above what they associate with Him...and who
It is He who sent His Messenger with guidance and the true religion, to make it prevail over every religion.


190

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
will be victorious, even though the polytheists may dislike it. O those who believe!
You have mentioned that many Jewish scholars and monks consume people's wealth unjustly and
They hinder [them] from the way of God, and those who hoard up gold and silver, and
"They do not spend in the way of Allah, so announce to them a painful punishment." (9:31-32)
(33-5)

Muhammad's wrath could also be directed at Muslims who had ignored the Prophet of Allah.
On his way back from Tabuk, he received news about a mosque.
which a group of Muslims had formed in opposition to the authority of Muhammad. Allah revealed to him
"It made clear the evil intentions of the builders of this mosque: And those who
They chose a mosque that is a source of harm, disbelief, and division among the believers.
[Also] it is an ambush for one who has previously waged war against God and His Messenger.
They will remember and swear by their oaths that they intended nothing but good, and God is a witness.
"They are indeed liars" (9:107) Muhammad instructs his followers
32
Let them burn the mosque.

The Prophet of Islam received further revelations condemning those who refrained from war.
They had beaten the soldiers. Allah reminds Muslims that the first duty of
They are to serve Him and His Messenger, and those who fight in Jihad will be punished with a fine.
They will face the horrors:

"O you who have believed, what is the matter with you that I said to you,
You will be slain in the way of God. Will you spend slowly? Will you go to the Hereafter instead of
The life of this world has made your hearts happy. The enjoyment of this worldly life is compared to the Hereafter, except for a little.
No. If you do not mobilize, [God] will punish you with a painful punishment and


191

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
He will bring another group in your place, and you will not harm them, and God is upon every
"It is a powerful thing" (9:38-39)

Not because Muhammad needs their help:

"If you do not help him [the Prophet], then God will surely help him when he is in need."
Those who disbelieved expelled him [from Mecca], and he was the second of the two when
They were in the cave [of Thor] when he said to his companion, "O my friend, God is with us."
Then God sent down His peace upon him, and he was with the soldiers who had
You did not see that the word of those who disbelieved was made lower and the word of those who disbelieved was made lower.
"It is Allah who is the Most High, and Allah is the Exalted in Might, the Wise." (9:40)

Although Muhammad may not have needed this help, jihad was on the way.
The best deed a Muslim can do is to serve Allah (9:41). The Prophet
Islam has emphasized this on many occasions. Once someone asked him:
He asked, "Tell me an action whose reward is equal to jihad."

33
Muhammad replied, "I cannot find any deed that has such a reward."

Muhammad's speech to the Muslims who had joined him in the Battle of Tabuk
He had a more wrathful response from Allah. He receives a revelation accusing them of
They prefer a comfortable life to the hard journey of jihad:

"If money were available and the journey [easy and] short, they would certainly follow you."
But that difficult path will be far away for them, and soon they will swear by God.



192

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
If we could, we would certainly come out with you [with our false oaths].
"They are destroying them, and Allah knows that they are liars." (9:42)

Allah even rebuked His Prophet for making excuses for Muslims to travel.
Tabuk has accepted (9:43). He told Muhammad that true Muslims are for
They do not hesitate to fight, even if their wealth and lives are at risk. Those who
They fought a war, but they were not believers (9:44-45).

The specific target of this criticism was the Bedouin Arabs: "The Bedouin Arabs are infidels and
The hypocrisy is more severe [than others], and because it exceeds the limits of what God has revealed to His messengers.
Those who do not know are more deserving, and Allah is Knowing, Wise. (9:97) Allah will bring some of the desert
He accuses the people of conspiring against Muhammad and warns that their cunning
It will return to itself (9:98).

"Muhammad also receives a revelation that says against the hypocrites
Be firm – and against all hypocrites, even though all their plans are against him.
He had failed. "O Prophet, fight against the disbelievers and the hypocrites and be harsh on them."
Take them and their abode is Hell, and what an evil destination! By God!
They think they have not spoken [unlawful speech], while they have definitely spoken blasphemy, and after
Those who converted to Islam have disbelieved and attempted what they failed to do.
They did not rise up to seek miracles except after Allah and His Messenger had bestowed upon them a favor.
They themselves made them needy, so if they repent, it will be better for them, and if they turn away, it will be better for them.
They will endure. God will punish them with a painful punishment in this world and the Hereafter, and will not be a helper on earth.
"And they will have no helper" (9:73-74).




193

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
In the context of Muhammad's events, being strict undoubtedly meant a
It is a military command. Especially when Allah commands those who fight in the way of Allah and
They have promised Paradise to those who kill and are killed. (9:11) Elsewhere,
Muhammad says: "I have been commanded to fight against the people until they surrender."
This is the truth that they bear witness that there is no god but Allah and that I am a prophet.
I am God and they should believe in the things I have brought. And when they are like that
They did, their blood and wealth are safe from me except as provided by law.
"Their reckoning is with Allah." 34. The other side of the coin is also true.
It is: If they do not become Muslims, their blood and property will not be touched by any Muslim.
It will not stay away.

Detail collection

Muhammad was now the undisputed ruler of Arabia. The Arab rulers and tribes that had
They had not surrendered to his power, now they would come to Medina and accept his religion.
They accepted and swore allegiance. Muhammad went to the lands that did not agree to the oath.
He sent his fearsome warrior Khalid bin Walid.
He sent a messenger to the tribe of Al-Harith, advising them to embrace Islam.
They agreed to give them three days before attacking them and the Muslims refrained from fighting.
They will do it if they convert to Islam. Khalid, according to his duty, to the leaders
The tribes said, "If you accept Islam, you will be safe." Khalid informed Muhammad
He sent envoys and representatives from that tribe to Medina to see Muhammad. Muhammad
He said, "If Khalid had not written to me that you had accepted Islam and
35
"You didn't fight, I would have thrown your head at your feet."



194

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
A letter came from Himar in southern Arabia informing Muhammad that
The kings of that region have accepted Islam and have declared in the name of Allah over the areas where idols are worshipped.
The worshippers remained and fought. Muhammad was relieved and informed them that
"Your messenger came to me upon my return from Byzantium, and he
He saw us in Medina and conveyed your message and news and brought us Islam.
You have been informed about killing the idolaters. God has guided you with His hand.
"He has done it."

He then explained to them the details of the duties of Muslims and said, "
Jews and Christians in their territories were to be invited to Islam, but
If they were soldiers, they should not be forcibly separated from their religion. Instead, the Jews
Or a Christian in these newly converted lands should have been a blessing for every man and woman.
"An adult woman, slave or free, must pay a full dinar or the equivalent of her clothes as a dowry."
He reminded them that the lives of Jews and Christians depended on the payment of this tax.
"It is dependent on": Whoever pays the tax to the Messenger of God, it is from God and His Messenger.
36
"He will be a believer, and he who is a living soldier will be an enemy of God and His Prophet."

Finally, the Prophet of Islam decreed that Jews and other Christians should not return to Arabia.
It doesn't belong at all. He said to his companions, "I will save the Jews and Christians from the night."
I will expel the Arabian Peninsula and leave no one here except Muslims.
"I will not let 37". He gave only such an order and fell on his deathbed. Today
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is trying hard to fulfill the Prophet's wish.
This relationship is considered respectful.




195

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The tax was very important because it was on the side of the attack that the contradictory results were created.
This tax was the main source of income for Muslims. This was stated in a letter that
It is clear that Muhammad was sent to a Jewish tribe called the Banu Junbah. First, he
It assures us that "under the protection of Allah and His Messenger, there is no cruelty or
They will not be wronged. Indeed, the Messenger of God will defend you.
"But, "Truly, it is a matter of knowledge that you will receive a fourth of the produce of the trees."
Give us your dates, a fourth of the game from the rivers, and a fourth of the woven
38
"Your wives."

Similarly, Muhammad wrote to a Christian ruler:

I will not fight against you until I guide you. Then go to the assembly.
Embrace Islam or pay the tax. Obey Allah and His Messenger. Honor them.
Have and dress them in fine clothes...give them many fine clothes. If
May my messengers be pleased with you, and I will be pleased with you... Three trusts
39
Give the barley to the Harmele...

The onerous taxes that Muslims imposed on Jews and Christians
It ensured that they could survive in relative peace, and this resource
It became the key to the emergence of the great Islamic empire that carried Muhammad's jihad to Africa, Europe, and
40
                                                                Asia won.

Farewell Hajj, women's rights, and the expulsion of idolaters

After returning from the Battle of Tabuk, Muhammad performed his last pilgrimage to Mecca and
During this pilgrimage, he determined how the pilgrimage should be performed, which all Muslims

196

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They should go at least once in their lives. He addressed Hajjaj.
And he imposed several restrictions on them, including the declaration that "God has commanded that no one
"Usury shall not be taken." Muslims, with the usual exceptions for non-believers, are more or less
This prohibition has been observed throughout history and today leads to the creation of loans.
It has become useless and other regulations for Muslims in the West.

Muhammad also created a lunar calendar that consisted of twelve months.
Without any extra months to create a difference between the solar and lunar calendars, therefore
Islamic months do not have fixed times and move throughout the year.
Then he addressed the relationship between wives and husbands:

You have rights over your women and they have rights over you. You have rights.
that they should have provided to you (i.e. whenever you said to you)
(They should not approach you with a stiff neck.) If so,
They did, God has allowed you to separate your rooms from them and to
Strike them, but not harshly. If they turn away from this, then they have the right to food and clothing.
And they have kindness. Command women with kindness, for they are prisoners.
Who have no control over themselves. You have taken them only as a trust from God and
41
You will benefit from them through the Word of God....

These words were consistent with the revelations that Muhammad had previously received about women.
He had done things that included beating disobedient women:

"So the righteous women are obedient [and] guard what Allah has preserved [for them]."
They guard [their husbands'] secrets and those women who fear their disobedience



197

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
You should [first] admonish them and [then] avoid them in the bedrooms, and they will
"Then if they obey, there is no other way for them." (4:34)

Muhammad also gave the unbelievers four months to leave Arabia and
Allah received a revelation to call them to Islam once again (9:1-3).

These unbelievers were polytheist or idolatrous Arabs, not Jews or Christians - of
Therefore, there is no mention here of the detail option that was previously mentioned.
For Jews and Christians, the options are to convert to Islam, pay the tax,
Or fighting, for the polytheists, the elections were only war or turning to
It was Islam. He reminds us that only unbelievers who converted to Islam were able to
They will be the ones who will maintain unity with the Muslims. The Muslims will be the ones who will maintain unity with the Muslims after the end of the period.
Four months to leave, they should kill them.

"Except those of the polytheists with whom you have made a treaty and have broken some of [your] covenants."
They have not given you [the right to] worship, nor have they supported anyone against you, so they have made a covenant.
Complete them until their [end] term, for God loves the righteous.
So when the sacred months have passed, kill the polytheists wherever you find them, and
Capture them and besiege them, and lie in wait for them in every ambush.
So if they repent and establish prayer and give zakat, then open a way for them.
"For God is Forgiving, Merciful" (9:4-6).

Repentance and other regular prayers and giving charity mean accepting Islam:
Arabic words used for prayers and charity
Zakat is: Two things that have become pillars of Islam. Only accepting Islam is a way of life.



198

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
It saves the unbelievers and the only hope for their acceptance of Islam is mercy.
He pursues the Muslims because the sin of the disbelievers is great.

Therefore, when the Islamic Jihad Army invades Hindu India, it will
Kurds were much more savage than in Europe because European Christians had no choice but to
They lived as a people of Dhamma, while the infidel Hindus had no such right.
They did not (although for practical reasons they later acquired the status of the people of Dhamma).
A historian named Sita Ram Gul testifies that Muslim invaders to India
They had no respect for the laws of war that had prevailed for centuries:

The Islamic Empire came with different laws, that is, with the tradition of the Prophet. It was necessary to
The fighters of the defenseless civilian people after the decisive victory they won on the battlefield
They were slaves, they were slaves. It was necessary to destroy their villages and cities after this.
Their defenders were dead or had fled, burned and plundered. The cows and the Brahmins
It draws their attention to the general killing of civilians. Temples and mosques in particular.
They were prey to plunder and fire. Those they did not kill were taken captive and
They were sold as slaves. Much booty was even obtained from corpses, and
The criterion for the success of the military mission was. And they called all of this as mujahideen and
42
They committed disbelief in the way of Allah and His last Messenger.

                                                                The murder of the poet

Muhammad was determined during this period to crush any remaining opposition.
Sweep. He now turned his gaze to the two poets, Abu Afak and Asma Bint.
Marwan, who had ridiculed Muhammad and his claim to prophethood in his slogans.


199

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Abu Afak was famous for being over a hundred years old and for killing opponents by
Muhammad had been criticized. Muhammad asked his men, "Who will pay for this?"
Will the present deliver the post?" 43 He called a young volunteer named Salim bin Umir
He found that the old poet was killed while he was sleeping. Asma bint Marwan was a poet who
When he heard the news of Abu Afek's murder, he became furious. He sang a song that the people
They accused Medina of obeying a stranger who did not belong to any of them.
He asked them, "Can't you find the young man who attacked him and
44
"Hope for those who have expectations of everything will be cut off?"

When Muhammad heard this, he sought a volunteer to kill him: "Who will save me from this?"
"Will the devil save the daughter of Marwan?" A Muslim named Umar bin Al-Khatami did this.
He took the oath and killed that poet with a child in her womb. But when he did this,
Dad was worried that he might have committed a sin. Muhammad was sure of his safety.
"You have helped God and His Messenger, O Umar!"

The men of the tribe of Asma bint Marwan, Banu Khatmah, were killed because of the power of Islam.
45
They saw this poem, narrated by Ibn Ishaq, confirming the prophethood of Muhammad.

Muhammad's illness and death

Muhammad Garmagarm Consolidates His Power and Plans to Expand the Empire
towards its growth) which ordered a jihad to conquer the Byzantine strongholds of Syria and
(he had given Palestine) fell ill. According to Islamic traditions, he finished his work.
He himself predicted. A few months before his fatal illness, he also received his last revelation.
He received a brief Quranic revelation and believed that Allah wanted him to
Let him prepare for his death and ask God for forgiveness: "For God's help and victory are upon him."

200

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Come. See how people enter the religion of God in droves. Then praise Him.
Your Lord is the one who supplicates to Him and asks His forgiveness, for He is ever Repentant.
"(46) Aisha narrated that Muhammad later said to her: "Gabriel is every
He recites the Quran to me once a year, and this year he did it again. Then I realized that
47
"My death will come this year."

The final illness of the Prophet of Islam occurred one day when Aisha complained of a headache.
Muhammad tells her that he wishes she had lived longer to stay with him, but
He knew it wasn't like that. Referring to Aisha's headache, he said, "I wish."
It was like you were going to die before me, so I could have asked Allah for you.
"I ask for forgiveness and pray for you."

Aisha responds to this statement with a sharp, devilish response: "By God, I wish it were so."
But I know that because I am dead and after returning from the grave, I will be in the same place.
"One day you will sleep with one of your wives!"

But Muhammad was not in the mood for satan. He told Aisha that her headache was from him.
It is more severe and he had in his heart that his illness could be fatal. 48. Worry
He was getting more and more anxious because he spent every night at the house of one of his wives.
He did as if it had been his habit since the time of his polygamy. So, because of the illness
Ash screamed louder, "Where will I be tomorrow? Where will I be tomorrow?"
Finally, his other wives allowed him to be with his beloved wife, Aisha.
49
Stay.

As we have seen, he is experiencing the same pain that he experienced in Khyber a few years ago.
50
He had experienced it and said he felt like his throat was going to burst from the pain.

2019

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Sleeping in a state of sleep, I often recite two surahs of the Quran, which are now at the end of the book of the Quran.
In these surahs, Muhammad seeks refuge in God from evil.

"Say: I seek refuge in the Lord of the Day of Judgment from the evil of what He has created and from the evil of darkness."
As he learns. And from the evil of those who love spells in knots. And from the evil of [any] envy when
"And envy" (Surah 113).

"Say, I seek refuge in the Lord of the people, the King of the people, the God of the people, from evil."
A secret whisperer. The one who whispers in people's hearts. Whether from the jinn or the
51
"From Man (Ans). Surah (114)

He asked the believers who had gathered around him for something to do.
"Write: So I can write on it something you will never forget."
"You will not." But instead, Muslims discussed with each other that Muhammad's illness
How hard they argued until finally he ordered them to
Leave the room. But before leaving, Muhammad ordered them to do two things: "The polytheists
Get them out of Arabia and tell the foreign representatives I have dealings with.
"Show respect and give them gifts."52

In his view, even when he was in bed, the unbelievers were very numerous. Some
53
Islamic traditions even claim that the Jews bewitched Muhammad.
When some of his wives told him about the beautiful church they had seen in prison,
They praised and spoke of Shamayil with pride. Muhammad sat down and
He said: "Whenever a man dies with piety, there is a place in his grave for him."
They worship it and then place images in it. These are the worst of people.
"They are the eyes of Allah." He added: "God cursed the Jews and the Christians because

202

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"They made the resting place of their Prophet a place of worship."55 Aisha mentioned that
56
Didn't he say, "My house will be made beautiful?"

At this moment, the Prophet's companions poured medicine into his mouth and the behavior of the protestors changed.
They ignored him. When he tasted the bitter medicine, he asked them:
"Didn't I forbid you from putting medicine in my mouth?" They replied.
He is reluctant to take medicine alone as a patient, but Mohammad is satisfied.
He didn't. As a punishment, he ordered everyone there to put the medicine in his mouth.
57
The patient himself must take that medicine.

Muhammad, by returning to his prophetic work, made a special mark: "I am the most concise
I have sent you words that contain the deepest meaning, and I am with you.
I have conquered the terror I have struck in the hearts of my enemies, and now that I am sleeping here,
The keys to the treasures of the world have been brought to me and are in my hands." 58 This one
It is a noteworthy phrase. It is true that the Quran is quite concise, especially
Compared to the Old Testament and even the New Testament, its content is truly authentic.
The deepest meaning is one that is very much in doubt for theologians. That
He was able to triumph by creating terror, despite the turbulent history of the prophetic mission.
Its attacks, wars, and assassinations are also undeniable.

Muhammad, of course, does not use terror and terror in the modern sense of terrorism.
Rather, it is the terror that Allah casts into the hearts of the disbelievers (3:151; 7:4-
(5;8:12;8:60,….something similar to what Jews and Christians fear from God)
But for Muhammad, this fear of God was not the same as the fear and terror that his warriors instilled in him.
Opponents say that separation is unacceptable because these warriors are tools of violence.


203

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
God is. And the Muslims are these warriors and the deities who gave them the spoils in this
It promises the world and endless pleasure in that world in the hands of Muhammad Kalid.
The treasures of the world belong to Muslims who, through terrorism and
The wrath of Allah will reach them.

At the end of Muhammad Farrar's work, Aisha said: "One of the gifts that
Allah has granted me this: The Messenger of Allah passed away in my house.
One day, while he was in my arms, and Allah made my mouth water with the water from his mouth,
When he died, he mixed 59. Then he said: "The Messenger of God, when he was sixty-three
He died in the year 60", meaning on June 8, 632 AD.

Muhammad, the ruler of Arabia, the founder and prophet of Islam, left a small fortune of his own.
He had spent most of his wealth on jihad. Of course, something that
He is the giver of the religion of Islam to the world. And throughout the centuries, Muslims who have
They set a pattern for their behavior, and with great seriousness they followed his orders to fight for the cause of
They have used themselves.

After Muhammad

Muhammad had no designated successor, and his fatal illness appeared to have come suddenly.
He had daughters but no sons: he had one son named Abraham, who
His mother, Muhammad's maiden name was Mari, a Coptic woman. She died at the age of sixteen.) Muhammad
He once said, "If Abraham were alive, I would exempt all the Copts from the tax."
(61)




204

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
According to the hadiths, Muhammad appointed Abu Bakr as his successor: Aisha
His name is the one Muhammad would have chosen if he had wanted someone.
Choose, declare 62. Muhammad had ordered during his fatal illness
that Abu Bakr should lead the Muslims in prayer in his place. 63 And in fact, after his death
Muhammad Abu Bakr became the first caliph.

However, a sect of Muslims claim that Muhammad actually considered Ali as
He had chosen a successor. In this narration, Muhammad asked Ali: "Did you
Are you willing to do for me what Aaron did for Moses?
"Will you give me?" 64 So this narration refers to what Moses says to Aaron in the Quran.
"Take my place among the people" (7:142). But Aisha rejected this idea that
(He mocked Muhammad Ali for choosing him.) Maybe he still remembers Ali.
The fact that he had told Muhammad that there were other women who could replace Aisha was a grudge.
He had it in his heart. When some said that Muhammad wanted Ali to be his successor,
He replied: "When did he choose Ali? Indeed, he died in my arms and he
He wanted to wash himself with water and then died in the same position. So I even
I couldn't find out that he was dead, so he appointed Ali with his permission.
65
Did you?"

This dispute reached its peak in the early years of Islam when Abu Bakr succeeded him.
Umar gave it to Uthman, and Umar gave it to Uthman. Each time, a section of Muslims insisted on a successor.
Muhammad must be someone from his own family (Ali is Muhammad's cousin and son-in-law)
Ali was eventually elected as the fourth caliph in 656, but in
Assassinated in 661.



205

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The Shia of Ali or the Ali Party, which is known as Shia today, has abandoned this issue.
They did not. They outnumbered the majority of Muslims and became more powerful, and this
The situation continues. Over the centuries, Shia have completely abandoned Islamic piety.
It is defined differently from the majority of Muslims, that is, the Sunnis.

Shia Muslims make up only 15 percent of the entire Muslim community, but
They are a vast majority in Iran and a relatively smaller majority in Iraq, and also a minority.
important in other Islamic countries. They are a force that Sunnis should
They will hold them accountable. The Shia-Sunni divide in Islam over the centuries has led to
Violence has become widespread, and in the twenty-first century, the shadow of this conflict has reappeared.
It is dominant in Iraq during the war, Pakistan, and elsewhere.

This is a legacy that is completely in line with the behavior and lifestyle of the Prophet of Islam.




206

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




Chapter Ten

                  Muhammad's legacy
* Was Muhammad an open child?

* Was Muhammad misogynistic?

* Muhammad's warlike model

* Merciless Islamic punishments

* Is Islam tolerant towards other religions?

* The Kind Side of Muhammad

* How today's jihadists imitate Muhammad

* What to do?



207

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




War on Terror

Muhammad became a controversial figure with the jihadist terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.
Terry became a figure in the Western world. Many analysts and commentators have written about him and
The religious people expressed their opinions without even bothering to discuss the facts.
Research him. Since knowledge of Muhammad in the West has always been superficial
It has been, they have always been able to manipulate it, but many of the questions
Regarding his role model, he is still involved in the war on terror and the relationship between the Islamic world and
Non-Muslims are related.

After this ignorance can be exploited to the utmost. Like jihadists (and also
Ordinary Muslims consider Muhammad as their role model and guide. It is important to know
What Muhammad really said and how he lived.

The Prophet, the child of the open?

In 2002, Jerry Wiens, former president of the Southern Baptist Convention,
He said: "Christianity was founded by Jesus Christ alone. Islam by
Muhammad, a boy playing with a donkey, had a wife of twelve years, and the last of them was not a girl.
"It was 1 year old." Vince's speech sparked much controversy, most of which criticized him for
They accused him of Islamophobia without examining the factual basis of his statements.



208

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Council on American-Islamic Relations from President Bush and religious leaders
2
He wanted them to condemn "Vince's reckless and Islamophobic statements."

However, there is some doubt about the authenticity of these words. According to the hadiths
As reported by al-Bukhari, the Prophet of Islam "had sex with Aisha when she was a girl of six years old."
He got married and this marriage was consummated when Aisha was nine years old.
"(He) approached him." Muhammad was fifty years old at this time.
Many Islamic defenders, now exposed by this testimony, claim
that Aisha was actually older. Karen Armstrong claims that "Tabari
It is said that he was so young that he stayed in his father's house and married later.
When he reached adulthood, he became 4". Unfortunately, his readers probably
They do not have many of Tabari's books in hand to check his claim: Contrary to the letter
Armstrong, this Islamic historian, quotes Aisha as saying: "The Prophet
God married me when I was seven years old, and we got married when I was nine.
5
"It arrived."

Despite these arguments, other Muslims accept this testimony.
Islamic scholar Muhammad Ali al-Hanwati says that Muhammad's marriage to Aisha was
It was God's will and "Allah is not usually someone we can disobey in relation to His command."
Let's discuss. The Quran says: "He will not be punished for what he does."
"But they (people) will be questioned about everything they do." Aisha
She got married when she was nine years old, and when Muhammad died, she was nineteen years old...
6
"What's wrong with marrying a girl who is six years old or nine years old or any other age?"




209

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Child marriage was a common practice among the Arabs of the seventh century. It is worth mentioning
There is no hadith or Quranic verse mentioned in defense of Muhammad's marriage to Aisha.
It is – and this is in contrast to the obvious defenses that are made for marrying your bride.
Zainab bint Jahsh is mentioned in the Quran. In addition, the Quran describes the culture
It is said that child marriage was an artificial and natural thing in that time. The Quran has stated in its regulations
For the period that one had to wait before divorcing to determine whether the wife
The Muslim is pregnant, it says: "And those of you who are unable to recite [the monthly]
They said, "If you are in doubt [whether they will bleed or not], their period is three months, and
[Girls] who have not [yet] seen blood, [also] their period is three months, and women
Their pregnancy is to carry the child, and everyone fears Allah.
"And make easy for him in his work" (65:4). Allah has given a situational revelation in this revelation.
It predicts that in that case, the underage woman not only got married but also intends to.
They should also divorce her.

So was Muhammad a promiscuous child? The concept of promiscuous child as a sexual perversion in the time
The seventh century did not exist for the Arabs. Muhammad was more or less the same in his marriage to Aisha.
He did what the men of his time did, and no one questioned him on this matter.
There was no problem until later. In this regard, Vince's accusation has a slight temporal inconsistency.
However, considering Muhammad's status as a supreme model of human behavior for Muslims, his marriage
It becomes more important with Aisha. The problem arises when an action like this is
Coercion has been separated from its historical context and has become a model for all people.
Times and places come into play. Yet this is exactly what is happening in
This has happened to the Islamic Ummah. Many Muslims, even in the modern era,
They marry children in imitation of the Prophet of Islam. In some cases, even the law
It is also permitted by: Article 1041 of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran


210

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Girls reach puberty at the age of nine and can marry at this age:
"Marriage before puberty (nine years for girls) is prohibited." The contract of marriage
7
"It is permissible before reaching puberty with the permission of the guardian."

Ayatollah Khomeini himself had sex with a girl when he was twenty-eight years old.
He got married at the age of ten. 8. Khomeini considered marriage to a minor girl a divine gift.
He advised, "Try to have your daughter's first blood test at home."
9
"You don't see it."

The Times reported in 2001:

"In Iran, the legal age of marriage is nine for girls and nine for boys."
Fourteen years. This law is sometimes abused by child molesters who
The provinces marry poor girls and then release them. In the year
200, Iran's parliament voted to raise the marriage age for girls to fourteen.
But the Guardian Council, made up of traditional clerics, rejected it.
Conservatives call for repeal of minimum age of fourteen for girls
Fortunately, it was rejected, but local experts say it is rarely implemented.
"The onset of puberty is considered the most appropriate age for marriage" (10).

The United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) reports that more than half of
Girls in Afghanistan and Bangladesh are married before they reach the age of eighteen.
11. In 2002, researchers in refugee camps in Afghanistan and
Pakistan found that half of girls were married by the age of thirteen.
An Afghan refugee camp has more than two-thirds of girls in second grade or
They were married or engaged, and apparently all the girls above the second grade were from

211

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They had already been married. A ten-year-old child was engaged to a sixty-year-old man.
12



This is the price that women have paid throughout Islamic history and continue to pay.
They explain why Muhammad is considered their best example (33:21).

Misogynistic?

Muhammad had many wives; his list of wives varies but is usually limited to eleven.
Up to thirteen wives. Islamic narratives attribute superhuman powers to him.
They will say: "He will say: 'Gabriel brought me a pot to drink from and gave me power.'"
Sexual energy equal to that of forty men was given. 13". In contrast, contemporary Islamic defenders
They claim that Muhammad's numerous marriages were not for lust but for
The consolidation of political alliances has been a Muslim biographer of the events of each
Which of these marriages does he examine and conclude: "Therefore, is it
We do not see that there is a solid reason for all these marriages, and lust and
"There was no lust among them."14 Although it is impossible to say such a thing.
Let us determine, there is no doubt that the laws that Muhammad established for women
It has inflicted many harms on women in Islamic societies to this day.

The Quran compares women to a field, and men can cultivate them as they wish.
"Your women are your farmers, after all, wherever [and in whatever] way you
You will enter your fields and have them for yourselves and ask God for
Be careful and know that you will meet Him, and give good news to the believers.
(2:223) It also declares that the testimony of a woman is worth half that of a man.
"And call to witness two witnesses from among your men, but if there are not two men,

212

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
A man and two women, from among those whose justice you approve, bear witness.
Take it, so that if one of the two (women) forgets, the other (woman) may remind her.
(2:282)". The Quran allows men to marry four wives and to marry slave girls.
"And if we do not hesitate in administering justice among orphan girls,
What other women did you fall in love with? Two, two, three, four
So if you fear that you will not deal justly with a [free woman] or with what
You have become [sufficient] owners [of the slave girl]. This [ownership] is closer to [the]
"You have become oppressors and have become a family in vain" (4:3).

The Quran also decrees that a son's inheritance should be double that of a daughter:
The Lord commands you concerning your children: A son's share is like a second share.
"It is a daughter" (4:11) And worse than all this, you call your husbands your disobedient wives.
Beat it (4:34).

Muhammad also says that the world is full of more women than men. "O women!"
Be aware that I have seen most of the inhabitants of Hell among you...you are the orderlies.
You curse your husbands and are ungrateful to them. In wisdom and
We have not seen a religion more imperfect than yours. A man with his feelings can be influenced by you.
15
"Go astray."

With such statements from the Quran and Muhammad, it is not surprising that women around the world are
They suffer from inequality.

Harsh punishments?




213

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Two severe punishments, one stoning for adultery and the other amputation of the hand for theft.
Many Westerners define Islamic law as Islamic law, and in fact these rulings are indicative of
Oh, the harshness and violence of the Middle Ages and its inadequacy for the contemporary world.
But attacking them as core elements of Sharia would be difficult.

It is well known that Muhammad used the Jews to conceal the punishment of stoning for
Adultery was condemned in the Torah. Islamic apologists in the West are fond of saying that
There is no such command in the Quran. It only says to flog for adultery.
"Flog every adulterous woman and adulterous man with a hundred lashes, and if you fear Allah and the Last Day,
Do you believe in the religion of God? Do not be jealous of them, and you should be a group of people.
"The believers will be present at the punishment of both of them" (2:24). Allah also commands that
"Fornicating women should remain confined to their homes until they die." And among your women
Those who commit adultery shall have four witnesses from among themselves [Muslims] to testify against them.
Then if they testify, you keep them [women] in the houses until they die.
"...or Allah will make a way for them" (4:15)

These punishments are harsh enough in themselves, but at least they seem
It seems that there is hope that the Islamic punishment of stoning for adultery will be stopped.
Which can be stopped in countries that implement Islamic law perfectly.
But this hope is an illusion. The hadiths narrate more than a few stories.
According to Umar, the Quran originally included a verse that prescribed stoning for adultery.
It was given, but it was accidentally omitted:

"Allah has sent down to Muhammad the truth and the Book, the Quran, and among that which he revealed is
It was the verse of stoning (stoning of married adulterers) that condemned adultery and we


214

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
We have mentioned this verse and committed it to memory. The Prophet of God carried out this punishment and we
We did the same after him.

I am afraid that after a while someone will say to God that we have the verse of stoning in the book.
We will not find God, and so they abandoned what God had enjoined. And the punishment is stoning.
It is permissible for any married person to commit adultery if the necessary evidence is provided or
"Confession or pregnancy occurs"16.

It is difficult, if not impossible, to reform the Islamic Taliban where Omar is in power.
They warn the opposition to take the lead.

The punishment for the offender, cutting off the hand, has been approved as even stronger than for adultery, and in
A verse has survived in the Quran: "And the thief, male and female, shall be punished for what they have done."
"Cut off their hands as a punishment from Allah, and Allah is Mighty, Wise."

God's words are applicable now and forever.

A warlike prophet?

Ibn Ishaq narrates that Muhammad fought in twenty-seven battles (if
The quotation in parentheses refers to the source of the Tabari history.

The Prophet personally participated in twenty-seven battles (twenty-six):

It was clear that the attack was against Al-Bawa.

Buat in the direction of Radwa. The tribe in the Yanbu Valley.

215

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The first battle of Badr in pursuit of Kurz bin Jabir

The great battle of Badr in which God kills the leader of Quraysh. And many of
The nobles of Quraysh and the captives

The Battle of Banu Sulaym Until Muhammad Entered the Turbulent Waters

The expedition of Suwayq in pursuit of Abu Sufyan ibn Harb (t: until he reached Qarqara)

The Ghazwa of Qatfan (I: Towards Najd) which was an attack on the Bahran mines in the Hejaz.
It was.

                                                         Ghazwa Ahad

                                                Al-Hamra Al-Assad's Ghazwa

                                                     Ghazoh of Banu Nazir

                                                      Battle of Zat al-Raqqa

The last battle of Badr or the last Badr

                                                       Dumat al-Jandal

                                                 Al-Khandagh and Bani Qurayzah

                                   Bani Lahyan, Dhi Qard and Bani Moztaliq


216

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
The Peace of Hudaybiyah, which the polytheists opposed by his passage to Mecca, and Muhammad intended
He did not fight.

                                                            Ghazwa of Khyber

After the pilgrimage to Mecca, he visits the following places:

                                             Mecca, Hanin, Taif and Tabuk

Muhammad himself fought in nine of them personally: Badr, Uhud, Khandaq, and Qurayzah.
17
                                         Mustalaq, Khyber, Fatah Hanin and Taif

So Muhammad is a typical example. We have seen how jihadists
Today, to encourage Muslims to fight according to the Prophet's example, the Battles of Badr and Khaibar
They seek refuge. It is difficult, if not impossible, to claim that Islam is a religion of peace.
It is when war and booty were the main occupation of the Prophet of Islam. Reform
If Islamic seekers have any loyalty, they must face this reality in return.
They will face their denial or cover-up and do something that will prevent Muslims from giving up.
Muhammad as a role model. If they do not do so, the consequences are clear.
It is: Bloodshed in the name of Islam will be eternal and imitation of the Prophet will continue.

                                                       Islamic tolerance?

The Quran says: "Indeed, those who believe [in Islam] and those who
Jews, Tyrians, and Sabeans, each one believed in God and the Last Day.
And he did good, then they will have their reward with their Lord, and they will have no fear.


217

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
"It is upon them, and they will not grieve" (2:62 and also 5:69)
22:17 Muslim speakers in the West are inclined to cite such verses and
They emphasize the commonalities between Islam and Christianity, and sometimes even between Islam and
Judaism. This is a gentle and tolerant depiction of Islam's respect for the Abrahamic religions.
They speak and in this way gain the trust of many Jews and Christians.
They say that Western countries can accept Muslim immigrants in large numbers.
Accept it without causing a rupture in their multicultural societies.

The Prophet of Islam, in the Quran and Hadith, has a sufficient degree of tolerance and harmony between
It has not created Muslims and non-Muslims, but has only created conflict.
The fundamental component of the Quran's view of non-Muslims is that most believers repeat and
"It is steadfast in its absolute truth, which accepts no rival." Religion
"In the sight of God is Islam" (3:19). Or another translation is "the only true faith."
In the sight of God, it is Islam. "Most of the Jews and Christians (People of the Book)
"You are the best nation ever raised up for mankind."
You enjoin what is right and forbid what is wrong, and you believe in God, and
If the People of the Book had believed, it would have been better for them. Some of them are believers.
"But most of them are disobedient" (3:110)

As we have seen, the Quran indicates that Jews and Christians after
During the time of Muhammad, they turned away from religion because they did not accept the prophethood of Muhammad, and
They have been subjected to distortion and intellectualism. Muhammad accused the Jews and Christians of
By condemning Christians for believing that Jesus was crucified and Jews for believing that Jesus was crucified.
"They were with him to crucify him for the sake of faith:" and they said, "We are the Christ."
We killed Jesus, son of Mary, the prophet of God, while they did not kill him, but crucified him.


218

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They did not, but the matter became confusing for them, and those who differed about him were certainly
They are in doubt about it and have no knowledge except conjecture.
"They follow him, and they certainly did not kill him" (4:157).

The idea that Jews and Christians are cursed appears several times in the Quran.
Both have rejected the religion of Allah and His Messenger:

"Indeed, God made a covenant with the children of Israel and raised up twelve leaders from among them."
We were raised up, and God said, "I am with you if you establish prayer and give zakat, and
Believe in My messengers and support them and lend to Allah a goodly loan.
We will remove from you your sins and admit you to gardens beneath which rivers flow.
I will explain it clearly. So whoever of you disbelieves after this, then he will indeed be disbelievers.
The right path has gone astray. So We cursed them for their breaking of the covenant.
And We hardened their hearts [so that] they distorted the words from their right places.
They do and forget part of what was given to them by Anders and
You will always be aware of their treachery, except for a few of them.
They are not traitors.] So pass by them and turn a blind eye. Indeed, Allah rewards the doers of good.
He loves. And from those who said, "We are Christians," [also] from them is the covenant.
We took it, but they forgot some of what they had been instructed to do, and we
[We] will put enmity and hatred between them until the Day of Resurrection, and soon Allah will remove them from
"He will tell you what they did [and made]" (5:12-14)

The Quran is very far from modern concepts of tolerance and peaceful coexistence.
It even warns Muslims not to befriend Jews and Christians.
Even from those who have been obedient and pay the alms: "O you who believe!


219

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
You have taken the Jews and the Christians as friends, while some of them are friends.
There are others, and whoever of you loves them will be one of them. Yes.
"Allah does not guide the wrongdoing people." (5:51)

Considering all this, it is interesting that the Quran refers to Christians and Jews as
They criticize him for not being tolerant. Allah warns Muhammad that "and never
The Jews and the Tyrians will not be pleased with you unless you follow their religion.
Say, "Indeed, it is only God's guidance that is the [true] guidance, and if after
The knowledge that you have acquired, you will not follow their desires in the sight of God.
He had no lord or helper...and [the People of the Book] said, "Be you Jews or Christians."
Say, "Nay, but I am upon the religion of Abraham, a true follower, and he was one of the polytheists."
"It was not" (2:120; 2:135)

A hadith encompasses all of this:

On the Day of Resurrection, an angel will call out: Every nation that worships God will be
Then none of those who worship anything besides Allah, such as idols or
They worshipped other gods and will fall into hell, except for those who worshipped
Allah will not leave behind those who obeyed and those who disobeyed.
Or were they from the People of the Book? Then the Jews will be called and told
It will be said, "Whom do you worship?" They will say, "But Ezra
"We worship the son of Allah." Then it will be said to them: "You are liars."
Because Allah has no wife or son. What do you want now? They will say:
"O Allah, we are thirsty, give us something to drink." Then guide them.
They will be told, "You will drink," and they will be sent to Hell.


220

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They will say that it is like a mirage where each side destroys the other.
Then they will fall into the fire. Then the Christians will be asked and they will
They will say: "We worship Jesus, the son of God." They will be told: "You are liars."
You are because Allah has no son or wife. Then it will be said to them, "What now?"
You will, and they will say what the Jews said. Then no one but themselves will
There will be no remnant who worship Allah alone, whether they obey or disobey.
18
Who did not obey.

According to Islamic eschatology, Jesus will set things right at the end of the world.
He will end the status of non-Muslims in Islamic societies.
Of course, not by creating a new age of equality and tolerance, but by abolishing Christianity.
And imposing Islam on everyone. As Muhammad explains:

By God, in whose hand my soul is, I am sure that Christ, the Son of Mary, is among you.
He will descend and judge man with justice. He will take up the cross.
19
He will defeat and kill the pigs, and there will be no more pieces left.

Another narration expresses it this way: "He will break the cross,
He will slaughter the pig and remove the tax. Allah will destroy all religions except
"It will destroy Islam." And in another hadith, Muhammad says: "How
You will be there when the son of Mary (Jesus) descends among you, and he will be with you according to the command of the Quran.
20
"He will judge, not the Gospel."

Meanwhile, the situation of the Jews during the end of the world will not be better. Muhammad
He says: "The Hour of Return will not come until the Muslims are victorious over the Jews."
Let them fight and let the Muslims kill them, while the Jews hide behind stones and trees.

221

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Then the stone and the tree will say: O Muslims, O servants of Allah, in
21
"There is a Jew hiding behind me. Come and kill him."

This delegitimization of Judaism and Christianity was accompanied by Muhammad's encouragement of war.
Combine Jews and Christians and you will not be surprised that the world
Islam has been the enemy of Jews and Christians for centuries. In schools
The field where jurisprudence is taught, they use these hadiths and narrations as a structure.
They have developed jurisprudence for the treatment of non-Muslims. The form of these rulings has changed over time.
The century has remained remarkably stable among all schools. The contemporary sheikh
Saudi Mazruq Salem Al-Qamdi, who several years ago gave a sermon on the
The tolerance of the Islamic community towards the presence of non-Muslims among them was said to be
:

"If the infidels live among the Muslims according to what the Prophet has decreed, there will be no harm."
There will be no problem if they pay the tax to the Islamic treasury.
Another condition is... that they do not build a church or mosque, and those that do not exist are destroyed.
They will not rebuild... they will give three days of food to every Muslim who comes to their house.
They will give...when Muslims sit, they will stand up, in their clothes and speaking from
Muslims should not imitate, ride horses, carry swords, or engage in any kind of
They shall not be armed; they shall not sell wine; they shall not display the cross; they shall not be defiled by the church.
They did not make a sound, their prayer was not heard, they covered the hair on their heads.
They should shave their heads so that they can be easily recognized and not say anything against Muslims, and Muslims should not
"They will not be beaten...if they violate these conditions, they will not receive any support."22




222

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Here, the Sheikh merely reiterates the ancient conditions of Islamic jurisprudence in dealing with non-Muslims.
It is repeated in Islamic societies, and he explicitly describes these conditions as the example of Muhammad.
We have seen earlier how Muhammad was very particular about collecting details.
Egypt was. Also, the second-class status of Christians and Jews is decreed in the Quran.
(9:29) Where it is mentioned that they consider themselves obedient and the first
The law was changed by Muhammad's military officer, Umar, during his caliphate.
It is similar to what Sheikh Mazruq said. Christians who are old
Those who make a covenant are obliged to:

We bet with ourselves that where we are, there is no community, church, or
We do not build an altar for a monk or any other type of place of worship, none of which is for
Let's not exploit hostility towards Muslims... if someone asks us to convert to Islam...
We will not stop them. We respect Muslims and if
They wanted to sit where we were sitting. We had to get up. We were afraid of clothes,
Turbans, sandals, hats, their hairstyles, and their names and titles are imitations.
We will not sit on a saddle, we will not wear a sword, and we will not use any weapon of any kind.
We will not collect any kind of dowry... We will not make a dowry in Arabic and we will not drink wine.
Sales. We cut the front of our hair short, we wear special clothes.
Wherever we are, we tie a shawl around our waist and avoid raising the cross outside.
We will keep our churches and sell them and our books in the market and on the road.
We Muslims do not openly declare. We do not ring our church bells, except in secret.
Let us raise our voices in remembrance of the Holy Book in the presence of Muslims or in church.
We will not....




223

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
After these provisions are established, the agreement is concluded: "These are the conditions that we
We have imposed a duty on ourselves and our religious followers in exchange for maintaining our security.
If we break any of them, we have acted to our own detriment, and the property of the people of Zama will be destroyed.
We have broken our word and you are allowed to do what they do to the rebels.
23
"You are right about us."

Even today, although these laws are fully enforced in most Islamic countries,
They don't, but Christians and other non-Muslims still face widespread discrimination and mistreatment.
Robert Hussein Qambar Ali was a Kuwaiti who converted from Islam to Christianity.
He turned to the 1990s. He was described as a recluse, even though
The Kuwaiti constitution guarantees freedom of religion and does not say anything about it.
The Islamic prohibition of turning away from the Islamic faith, which is manifested in words and deeds.
Mohammad Didim, he says, "We did not see it." One of Hussein's prosecutors says: "Finally...
Unfortunately, we must say that our penal code does not punish apostasy. The reality is that
The lawmaker cannot prescribe punishments for apostates, as Allah and our Prophet have prescribed.
Those who decide to apostatize from Him: Our Book, Our Tradition,
24
"The covenant with our Prophet and his law is by the command of Allah."

It is simply astonishing that the myth of Islamic tolerance has been able to survive despite the hatred.
And Muhammad's open insults towards Jews and Christians, based on that, he expressed his anger.
It became common to attack them and call them to Islam or submission. Although the nature of
Humans are the same everywhere, and Muslims can, of course, have the same rights as anyone else.
Toleration may work, but the example of Muhammad, as the highest model of human behavior,
It constantly pulls them in another direction. This reality that Western analysts
They still ignore this evidence and try to convince people of something they don't know.


224

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
They like to hear and believe, regardless of the clear evidence against it.
It exists.

A more kind Muhammad

What makes the Muhammad we saw at the beginning of the book "the man who
25
"His heart is filled with love for humanity, regardless of class, faith, and skin color"?
"A man who had the opportunity to take revenge on those who attacked him but did not do so."
"Did he just look?" 26 Dr. Mohammad Ahmadullah Seddiqi, professor of journalism and
Public Relations at Western Illinois University, Founder of the Islamic Student Movement
It was India that was involved in the July 2006 Mumbai bombings. He is now
He denies the group's violence and says that he reminded them that
"One of the most remarkable things about Muhammad, the Prophet of Islam, is that in
The Quran describes him as speaking of forgiveness for all humanity.
How can followers of this faith clench their fists and avoid violence and other things?
27
"Speaking like this?"

This Muhammad is not a complete fake either. One of his followers called him a cruel and
"He described it as "not gentle." He did not make a fuss in the market and did not return evil for evil."
He would rather forget and forgive. 28". Another says that Muhammad, no matter what,
As unlikely as it may seem, "she was more shy than a woman in her solitude"29.
He "did not swear, did not curse, and was not indecent." 30 One of Muhammad's servants
He says that his master never scolded or reprimanded him: "So at home and on the road"
I served him; I swear to God he never thanked me for what I did.




225

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
I didn't say why you did this or why you didn't do that or why like that.
31
"You didn't?"

These elements of Muhammad's personality cannot be denied. Above all, he
He must have had a great deal of personal charm and even charm to do this.
(He must have inspired loyalty among his followers.) Of course, it cannot be denied that
The death penalty for leaving a group is a powerful incentive to stay in it.
This attraction was only available to believers, especially during the Medina period, when
His behavior towards Jews and Christians became more violent. Muhammad usually distinguished
It imposes a lot on believers and non-believers, and it is emphasized in the Quran.
"Muhammad [PBUH] is the Messenger of God, and those who are with him are severe against the disbelievers."
"They are kind to one another" (48:29)

Defenders of Islam often cite a narrative in which Muhammad atoned for the death of a Jew.
They show respect and mention. When the funeral ceremony was held, Muhammad
He stood up. When his followers told him that the dead man was a Jew, Muhammad replied
"Was he not a man, had he not a soul?" 32 A beautiful sentiment, but in
Islamic narrations are not very reliable. It is not recorded where and when this incident occurred.
It is, but its date probably goes back to the early period of Muhammad's prophethood.
When he tried to persuade the Jews to accept his prophethood. Hadith
They similarly emphasize that those who reject Muhammad will be in Hell.
It is hell. A Muslim narrates that "the body of a Jew was found next to the Prophet of Islam."
He was being persecuted and he was being ignored. Muhammad said: You are being ignored and he is being ignored.
33
"You will be punished."



226

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Defenders of Islam who cite examples that show Muhammad as kind
There is generally no mention of his encouragement to fight the infidels until they converted to Islam.
They don't care. They don't care at all about Muhammad's battles, his attacks, and his delight in terror.
His enemies, whom he himself had ordered, do not mention Muhammad, who
He is depicted in Islamic narratives, but does not portray a fixed personality. He
It has been many things to many people at different times. But
Ignorance of the unpleasant elements of his teachings and actions does not cover anything up.
Slow down; the jihadists are still committing violence in imitation of their Prophet.
They will be.




Praise to Muhammad

The Quran has repeatedly encouraged believers to obey and imitate Muhammad, and
This is one of the main reasons for the abundant praise of Muhammad throughout Islamic history.
These praises are such that they have created a legend about Muhammad. Iranian Sufi mystic
Mansur al-Hallaj (858-922), perhaps in the depth of his studies of the Quran, said that Allah
"He has not created anything more important to Him than Muhammad and his angels." Philosopher 34
A Sufi named Abu Hamid Muhammad al-Ghazali (1058-1111) declared that "the key
The joy of following the tradition and imitating the Messenger of God in all his comings and goings, his movements and his actions.
35
"His rest is in the way he eats, behaves, sleeps, and speaks."

Sometimes this praise knows no bounds. An Iranian poet named Rumi (Jalal)
Al-Din Muhammad Rumi (1207-1273) said that the fragrance of red roses is the sweetness of the Prophet
36
Islam is coming:

227

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
An Arab writer also expressed the view that Allah created Muhammad's body with such
He created a beauty that has never been seen by man before or after him. If the whole
The beauty of the Prophet is brought before our eyes, no one can bear it.
37
Slow down.

Of course, this kind of exaggeration and exaggeration only serves to emphasize the centrality of Muhammad's personality.
It bears witness to the Islamic faith. Contemporary scholar and scholar Frithjof
Schuon (1907-1998) summed up this focus: he wrote about
Virtue in Islam explains that "it is impossible to believe that these virtues are
The century could have been implemented if Muhammad, the founder of Islam, had not
The highest form does not bring about... For Muslims, it has spiritual and moral value.
38
"The prophet is not an abstraction or a myth, he is a living reality."

Imitation of Muhammad in this time

It is certain that Mujahideen around the world embody certain characteristics of Muhammad.
They know that they are trying to get a body. His model cannot be kind,
Sociability and non-rigidity should be limited to his servants. When Muslims
Imitationists look to Muhammad, they look to the same sources that I
I have used this book: the Quran, Hadith, and Seerah. There is abundant evidence of this imitation in
Recent years include:

On March 28, 2003, Palestinian Sheikh Muhammad Abu Al-Hanoud delivered a sermon that
The official Palestinian television was also broadcasting about those who tried.
"Desecrating the Book of God, the religion, the region, the Quran, and the message of Muhammad is an Americanization."
"He warned." No doubt his intention was to avoid the message of the Quran and Muhammad from the violence that was in

228

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
When praying for an American in Iraq, it becomes clear: "Gods, the actions
Make them part of the spoils of the Muslims, destroy them and their weapons, O God!
39
"Make their children orphans and their women widows."

On September 5, 2003, Sheikh Ibrahim Mudaris, while speaking about the Iraq War,
In another sermon broadcast by Palestinian media, Muhammad's battle
He pointed out, although his memory of the Battle of Tabuk was a little weak: "If we go through
If we go back in time 1400 years, we will find that we are the history
We repeat ourselves... the Byzantines represent America in the West...
America will collapse just as Byzantium collapsed in the West...Prophet
The invincible ranks of the Islamic army were able to defeat the largest Roman Empire.
Destroy a human power comparable to America without any of the
Muslims would be martyred. The Prophet could have achieved this through the unity of the ranks of Muslims and
Their awakening will also defeat the America of this time. America is enemy number one.
It is us and we are their number one enemy until the Battle of Tabuk.
"Let us learn a lesson." And mobilize whatever force and ready horses you can. "We
40
"We are ready and our victory belongs to God."

On November 21, 2003, Muslims gathered at the Maiduguri Grand Mosque after Friday prayers.
They went to the Nigerian city of Kaduna and demanded the implementation of Sharia law and published a pamphlet
They were distributing leaflets that declared: "The only solution to this world is jihad."
Implemented by Muhammad the Prophet, Shah Othman Dan Fodio, and Ayatollah Khomeini of Iran
It is coming. We Muslims must unite and embrace the jihad that will undoubtedly
It will strengthen us in the destruction of oppression and oppressors and the establishment of Islam in its place.
41
"Made".


229

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
In late November, 2003, the website of the Islamic Department of the Saudi Embassy
A witness in Washington encouraged Muslims to wage violent jihad in imitation of Muhammad.
"Muslims must raise the knowledge of jihad so that the word of Allah may be proclaimed in this world."
He will rule and eliminate all kinds of oppression and injustice and defend the Muslims. If
Muslims will not take up the sword. The arrogant people of the earth will oppress the weak and
"The oppressed will continue to give." This passage conveys the word of God given to Muhammad.
Kand: Whoever fights in My way and for My pleasure from among My servants,
I will surely compensate him for his suffering with reward and spoils (during his life) and
42
"If he dies, we will forgive him and he will enter Paradise."

In December 2003, an Iraqi mujahideen explained why he was targeting the groups.
"The American living there fights": The principle of religion is that we cannot
Let us accept living with the disbelievers. The Prophet, may God’s mercy be upon him, said: “The disbelievers
"Kill wherever you find it." Of course, this man is not quoting from Muhammad, but from the Quran in reality.
(Surah Al-Kand, verse 5) means the verse known as the verse of the sword. But understanding
43
It's not hard to see why these two are confused.

Fawaz bin Muhammad al-Nashami, the commander of the jihadist group that killed twenty-two people in a
Jihadist attack in Khabar, Saudi Arabia, on May 29, 2004, killed, said
"He has done as much for Arabia as Muhammad wanted: 'We are Mujahids.'"
And after the Americans. We do not draw weapons on Muslims. Rather, we want
The Arabian Peninsula, in accordance with the Prophet's request to the polytheists and disbelievers,
They are killing our brothers in Afghanistan. Let's clean it up... We are sweeping this place of infidels.
We found Filipino Christians here. We cut their throats and threw them in the river.
We donated to our Mujahideen brothers in the Philippines. We found the Indian engineers and gave them a hug.


230

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
We also took them. To this day, I have freed Muhammad's land from many Christians and idolaters.
44
"I have cleansed the worshipers."

In the 2004 US presidential election, a Muslim preacher
He declared that Muhammad condemned democracy: "Our Prophet did not establish any government with
He did not run for any elections. He did not win the political debate. He did not win the war against
45
"The infidels have won."

A Mujahideen Explains That the Israeli-Palestinian War Is Nothing But a Conflict
"There are no nationalists on the face of the earth." But not all people know that the struggle
We Jews go back to the past, even to the time when the first Islamic government
It was founded in Medina by Muhammad, and he was sent to guide all of humanity.
Allah has told us in the Quran about the hatred and enmity of the Jews towards the Muslim Ummah.
And he said, "We have certainly rejected the Jews and those who associate others with Allah."
46
"You will find the most hostile people to the believers" (5:82)

In October 2004, Sheikh Amer bin Abdullah Al-Amer wrote in Al-Qaeda's online magazine:
The name of the voice of Jihad was written: "Wage jihad against your enemies with your own hands,
You sacrifice their lives and property in the war against your enemies, in obedience to your Messenger.
47
"Be angry with your enemies in the month of Ramadan."

Hamza Yusuf, an American who converted to Islam in November 2004, during the Peace of Hudaybiyah.
He advised Muslims to "achieve their goals". They should be like this for a few mornings.
48
"Live like a sheep so that you can live like a lion in the future."




231

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
A journalist at Arab News named Adel Salahi was arrested on January 1, 2005.
His readers learned that Muhammad never spoke to people without inviting them to Islam.
"He did not fight": During the period of his prophethood, the Islamic nation had to fight many battles.
He did so because the danger was great and many opponents intended to suppress the voice of the
The newly emerged had the Islamic message. The Prophet made sure that none of these
Muslims' battles do not go beyond the limits of Islamic rulings... He attacks the enemy without warning.
And their call to accept Islam and live in peace with Muslims did not go unchallenged.) 49.
On May 6, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad sent a letter to George W.
Bush, who later explained that in this letter he had invited him to Islam:
"This letter was a call to monotheism and justice, which were shared by all the divine prophets."
If this invitation is answered positively, there is no problem that can be solved.
Not solved (50").

London Muslim leader Hani al-Saba'i was massacred in February 2005.
The Mujahideen affiliated with Zarqawi justified this in Iraq: "Is this
Do people have a basis in Islamic law or not? They claim that it is and
The deeds support them, they say that the massacre in the hadith was carried out by
There is a narration by Muhammad, which Sheikh Ahmad Shakir has also considered authentic. Mujamid is
The Quraysh tribe said: I will massacre you. But these are religious matters.
They are under discussion. The Prophet blinded the people of Uriana and crucified them.
They were just a group of thieves who had stolen from the shepherds. The Prophet sent them to
He took them to the desert and left them there to die. They were blind and their hands and feet were paralyzed.
The diagonal was cut off. This was something that Muhammad did not do on a very important matter.
51
"He carried out the war that is in its place."



232

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
As we saw in Chapter 8, in July 2006, a writer in a
A Muslim internet forum declared: "I am tired of these dirty Israeli dogs."
I am tired. May God curse them and destroy them all like the fate of the Beni Qurayza.
"No one accused him of bringing seventh-century models into the present day."
52
"He has done it."

Most Western rulers and legal authorities have taken all these and similar examples to heart.
They reject the title of water and heat as a problem or misuse of Islam. But we have seen that
All of these actions and behavior of Muhammad that the Mujahideen refer to are documented in sources.
It has been confirmed by Islam. There is a rich body of material in this tradition that the view
It completely shows the fundamentalism of Muhammad.

Of course, this explains why the authorities are relying on mainstream Muslims.
They refer to the fact that he has declared his abhorrence of terrorism and endorsed Western pluralism.
They do, and to find such credible spokespeople for this, the so-called majority
They often find themselves in this unique situation where their supporters
Muslim terrorists are only a small minority, but at the same time they acknowledge that this
A small minority practically leads a large number of Muslims and apparently
The vast majority who reject jihad are trying to pull this off.
Fundamentalists do not act from a position of power.

The scary reality

Of course, many non-Muslims cannot accept the reality of what Muhammad did and said.
Accept the data because they are simply horrible. Many imagine
By exposing the elements of Islam that are today the driving force behind violence and destruction,

233

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Jihad is the peaceful efforts to spread Sharia law in the West.
It will create a clash of civilizations and give the West complete dominance over the Islamic world.
will decide. Not a few analysts believe that the rulers and
The Western media ignores or downplays these facts about Islam.
They will be able to prevent such a global confrontation and reform the Taliban.
Make it more powerful in the Islamic world.

It is clear from the above examples that the Islamic Mujahideen have a fairly good understanding of
They have details of Muhammad's life that can support their actions. They are in
They are promoting Muhammad in this way all over the world. It is absurd to think that
If Western authorities and media refuse to confirm these facts, then these events will be
It will not happen. The only way to reform the Taliban is to be a true Muslim (unlike many who
Who claim to be reformists but only vaguely condemn terrorism
Without even defining who the terrorists are (in order to
They could probably have buyers among Muslims for their words. There is no denying this.
It is the aspects of Islam that jihadists know best. The only hope
Their success, however small, is a confirmation and confrontation with the actions and words of Muhammad.
And it is the teaching of Islam that teaches jihadi violence and the supremacy of Sharia, and every
It rejects a literal interpretation of the Quran and abandons these teachings. But of course
This leads jihadists to view them as traitors to the teachings of Muhammad and
Islam is considered a religion, and this in itself is an obstacle to gaining importance in the world.
                                                                   Islam

What should be done?



234

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
So what should non-Islamic governments do? Many things from
Sentence:

1. Stop insisting that Islam is a religion of peace. This is a lie and
A lie will never be of any use. In fact, there is no need for the president to lie.
The President of the United States or the Prime Minister of Britain or any Western leader regarding
The nature of Islam is not to express an opinion at all. It is much wiser for them to express their hostility.
They should declare and strive to establish Islamic law in the countries where it prevails.
They resisted it.

2. A Manhattan Project is all set to find new sources of energy.
During World War II, America invested millions of dollars and excelled.
He used the world's most elite scientists to build the atomic bomb.
A similar approach must be taken to eliminate the West's dependence on oil from the Islamic world.
– A dependency that has influenced Western foreign policies and prevented
Taking the steps they want to take in self-defense against jihad
They took what Muhammad preached.

3. Blindly link Western aid to the ideology of jihad. If governments
The West officially recognizes the existence of global Islamic imperialism,
Western aid that helped governments like Egypt and Pakistan to reject
Activity in the direction of jihadist teachings has become conditional and positive steps have been taken.
They will take it with them along with the rulers of that state. These states and others recognize
They say that they do not accept the jihad of Osama bin Laden and Mujahideen like him; let them if
They are honest, showing their good intentions by progressing in Islamic schools.


235

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Schools that explain why Muhammad encouraged war and sought superiority
It no longer corresponds to the world today or the future.

4. American Muslim advocacy groups should be asked to focus on ideology.
In exchange for affirming the American Constitution and American values,
Islamic institutions in the United States are full of jihadist propaganda against Al-Qaeda.
Jews and Christians. 2005 report by Freedom House Center for
Religious freedom in American mosques has been taught hatred of non-Muslims and
He explained that according to what Muhammad had said, apostates from Islam should be killed.
53. Here too, American Muslim organizations acknowledge that jihad
They do not accept Osama bin Laden, but their actions bear little resemblance to their words.
Five years after September 11, there are still programs in American mosques and schools.
To educate against the ideology of jihad or opposition to elements of Muhammad's life that
It is permissible to organize for violence and the pursuit of Islamic supremacy.
It is not surprising that, given the history of such groups (the
Relations between Islam and America For example, the Palestine Islamic Association, a front of
Hamas took shape (and the focus of jihad in Islamic theology, government officials, and
54
The dominant media still considers these groups to be moderate.

5. If politicians and congressional staffers existed today, they would have to
Challenge or disrupt groups and demand real and moderate reform.
Create the right one that is based on the model of the Jihad of Muhammad or this
No longer recognize groups as moderate groups toward formalization. Also
The law and the government must also recognize the honesty and moderation of these groups, which are numerous.
They only accept Westernism in words.


236

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
6. Immigration policies should be reconsidered in light of the ideology of jihad.
The West should abandon immigration programs that raise tough questions about the vision
Demanding on pluralistic societies, religious freedom, women's rights and other features
Western societies that incorporate elements of Muhammad's teachings and Islamic law.
It challenges. Of course, intelligence officers expect honest answers in
Not all cases have this, but the very presence of such questions for those who
They hope to turn Western republics into Sharia autocracies.
He will do that in these republics they are not welcomed, and if so,
Those who do will be prosecuted and expelled. The need for such policies
Such a focus on immigration has been tinged with fear of racism, but this
It is not a racial issue. Muhammad's teachings are for all races and people of all races.
All races are related to it.

If no Western politician is found who has enough courage to do this,
Western countries will eventually pay a heavy price, then
Jihadists who have carried out successful military attacks, or indigenous Muslims
have encouraged them to do so, or when they have interpreted the principles of Sharia in a way that
Peaceful are included in the laws. As in the campaign in the United Nations and
We have witnessed several European countries adopt Islamic blasphemy laws.
55
Who was affected by the riots that broke out over the Muhammad cartoon.

Muhammad's words and actions led Muslims to commit acts of violence throughout the millennium.
And it has been going on for four hundred years. These actions are destined to disappear in our time.
It is not negotiable, nor can it be resolved or resolved. The best thing that Western rulers can do is
They can perform their characteristic detection and limit its influence in


237

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
It is their own countries and the surrounding areas, and they will ask Muslims to themselves accept these elements of Islam.
and regulate their policies in a way that has it in mind.
It is true that most Muslims consider Muhammad to be the best role model.

The sooner this is done, the safer we will be. But until this problem is solved,
Let's ignore Muhammad's inspiration for his followers to strike in his name.
It will be.




.




238

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




239

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad



Footnotes
Why is the biography of Muhammad relevant now?: Chapter One

 1. "President Bush Discusses Global War on Terror,"
White House press

release, April 1 0, 2006.

 2. Farida Khanam, "Muhammad's Love and Tolerance for
"Mankind",

IslamOnline, March 15, 2006.
Http://muhammad.islamonline.netl

  English/His_Example/HisQualities/07.shtml. The riots
involved car -

  toons in a Danish newspaper (and republished
elsewhere) that

 depicted the Prophet Muhammad in a comical light.
Many of the

  images circulated in the Islamic world were fakes
distributed by


240

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 Islamic agitators to inflame riots and protests.

  3. Carl Ernst, Following Muhammad, University of
North Carolina

Press, 2003, 85.

 4. Safi-ur-Rahman al-Mubarakpuri, Ar-Raheeq AI-
Makhtum (The Sealed)

 Nectar), Al-Furqan, 1979, 492, 499.

5. Http://www.cair.com

  6. Ibrahim Hooper, "What Would Prophet Muhammad
(pbuh) Do ",?

  Council on American-Islamic Relations, February 4,
2006.

 http://:www.islaml0l.com/rights/wwpMdo.htm

  7. "Cleric calls on Mohammed cartoonist to be
executed," The Telegraph, February 6, 2006.

 8. Saw stands for "Salla Allahu aalayhi Wasallam,"
which translates as "May the blessing and the peace of
May Allah be upon him.

241

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 9. "Kill those who insult the Prophet Muhammad (saw),"
Al-Ghurabaa,

  http://www.alghurabaa.co.uk/articles/cartoon.htm The
article is quite specific about Muhammad's example:
"Ka'ab ibn Ashraf was assassinated by Muhammad ibn
Maslamah for harming the Messenger Muhammad (saw)
by his words, Abu Raafi' was killed by Abu Ateeq as the
Messenger ordered in the most evil of ways for swearing
at the prophet, Khalid bin Sufyaan was killed by Abdullah
bin Anees who cut off his head and brought it to the
prophet for harming the Messenger Muhammad (saw) by
his insults, Al-Asmaa bintu Marwaan was killed by Umayr
biq Adi' al Khatmi, a blind man, for writing poetry against
the prophet and insulting him in it, Al-Aswad aI-Ansi was
killed by Fairuz al-Daylami and his family for insulting
the Messenger Muhammad (saw) and claiming to be a
the prophet himself. This is the judgment of Islam upon those
who violate, dishonor and insult the Messenger
Muhammad (peace be upon him)."

 10. "Iraq: Al-Zarqawi Group Boasts Killing Christians,"
Adnkronos International, April 7, 2006.

 11. "Murder 'infidels', Mukhlas urges," The Australian,
December 18, 2005.

  12. Karen Armstrong, Muhammad: A Biography of the
Prophet, (San Francisco: Harper San Francisco, 1992),


242

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 13. "Jihad in Canada," Ottawa Citizen, June 5, 2006.

  14. "Blair condemns bombers who act in the name of
Islam,'" Reuters, July 7, 2005.

  15. Dr. Muqtedar Khan, "The Legacy of Prophet
Muhammad and the Issues of Pedophilia and Polygon1Y,"
Ijtihad, June 9, 2003.

 16. See, for example, "Fears as young Muslims 'opt out,'"
BBC News, March 7, 2004.

 17. Richard Lowry, "The 'To Hell with Them' Hawks,"
National Review, March 27, 2006.

  18. "Gaza EU offices raided by gunmen," BBC News,
January 30, 2006.

  19. "Gazans burn Danish flags, demand cartoons
apology," Reuters, January 31, 2006.

  20. "EU Press Reprints Explosive Cartoons,"
IslamOnline, February 1, 2006.

 21. Alan Cowell, "European papers join Danish fray,"
New York Times, February 8, 2006; "Protests Over


243

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
Muhammad Cartoon Grow," Associated Press, January 30,
2006.

  22. "Group stokes cartoon protest," Reuters, February I,
2006; "Fatwa issued against Danish troops," Agence
France Press, February 1, 2006.

  23. "Q&A: The Muhanlmad cartoons row," BBC News,
February 7, 2006; "Kashmir shutdown over Quran
desecration, Prophet caricature," India-Asia News Service,
December 8, 2005; "Cartoons of Mohammed cause death
threat," DR Nyheder, December 3, 2005; "Muslim World
League calls for UN interventions against disdaining
religions," Kuwait News Agency, January 28, 2006.

 24. "Clinton warns of rising anti-Islamic feeling,"
Agence France Presse, January 30, 2006.

 25. Hassan M. Fattah, "At Mecca Meeting, Cartoon
Outrage Crystallized," New York Times, February 9, 2006.

26. "Cartoon Body Count,"
http://www.cartoonbodycount.conl.

 27. Toby Sterling, "Dutch Filmmaker Theo Van Gogh
Murdered," Associated Press, November 2, 2004.



244

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 28. "Everyone Is Afraid to Criticize Islam," interview
with Ayaan Hirsi Ali, Spiegel, February 6, 2006.

In Search of the Historical Muhammad: Chapter Two

  1. Dr. Muqtedar Khan, "rrhe Legacy of Prophet
Muhammad and the Issues of Pedophilia and Polygamy,"
Iitihad, June 9, 2003.

 2. Muhammed Ibn Ismail Al-Bukhari, Shih al-Bukhari:
The Translation of the Meanings, trans. Muhammed M.
Khan, Darussalam, 1997, vol. 3, book 46, no. 2468.

 3. Maxime Rodinson, Muhammad, translated by Anne
Carter, Pantheon Books, 1980, 279-283.

 4. Bukhari, vol. 7, book 68, no. 5267.

 5. Bukhari, vol. 1, book 8, no. 402.

 6. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 56, no. 2832.

7. Yon Denffer, 18-19.

  8. The word hadith's Arabic plural is ahadith, and this is
found in much English-language Muslim literature.
However, to avoid confusing English-speaking readers I
have used the English plural form.

245

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 9. "Hadith & Sunnah," www.islamonline.net.

 10. Abdul Hamid Siddiqi, Introduction to Imam Muslim,
Sahih Muslim, translated by Abdul Hamid Siddiqi, Kitab
Bhavan, revised edition 2000, v.

  11. "Ibn Hisham's Notes," in Ibn Ishaq, The Life of
Muhammad: A Translation of Ibn Ishaq's Sirat Rasul
Allah, A. Guillaume, translator, (Oxford University Press,
1955), 691.

12. Ibid., xxxv.

13. Ibid., xxxvii.

14. Ibid., 516.

15. Ibid., 451.

 16. My own copy bears the stamp of an Islamic
bookstore in Lahore, Pakistan.

  17. AH stands for anno Hegirae, year of the Hijra, or the
number of years after Muhammad fled Mecca for Medina,
according to the Islamic lunar calendar.




246

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 18. A.I. Akram, The Sword of Allah: Khalid bin Al-
Waleed: His Life and Campaigns (Feroze Sons Publishers,
Lahore, 1969).

  19. Javeed Akhter, The Seven Phases of Prophet
Muhammad's Life, International Strategy and Policy
Institute, 2001.

 20. PBUH stands for "Peace Be Upon Him."

 21. Salah Zaimeche, "A Review on Early Muslim
Historians," Foundation for Science Technology and
Civilization, 2001.

 22. Yahiya Emerick, The Life and Work of Muhammad,
Alpha Books, 2002, 311.

  23. S. Moinul Haq and H. K. Ghazanfar, "Introductiol1,"
in Ibn Sa'd, Kitab Al-Tabaqat Al-Kabir, vol. I, S. Moinul
Haq and H K. Ghazanfar, translators, Kitab Bhavan, n.d.,
xxi.

  24. Ibn Al-Rawandi, "Origins of Islam: A Critical Look
at the Sources," in The Quest for the Historical
Muhammad, Ibn Warraq, editor, Prometheus Books, 2000,
Ill.

 25. Ibn Sa'd, Kitab Al-Tabaqat Al-Kabir, vol. II, 64.


247

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 26. See Ignaz Goldhizer, Muslim Studies, vol. 2, George
Allen & Unwin Ltd., 1971.

 27. Itzchak Weismann, "God and the Perfect Man in the
Experience of 'Abd aI-Qadir al-Jaza'iri," Journal of the
Muhyiddin Ibn 'Arabi Society, volume 30, Autumn 2001.

Muhammad Becomes a Prophet: Chapter Three

 1. Ibn Sa'd, Kitab Al-Tabaqat Al-Kabir, Vol. I, S.
Moinul Haq and H. K. Ghazanfar, translators, Kitab
Bhavan, n.d. Ill.

2. Ibn Ishaq, 73.

3. Ibn Ishaq, 80.

4. Ibn Sa'd, vol. I, 169.

5. Ibn Ishaq, 80.

6. Ibn Sa'd, vol. I, 177.

7. Ibid., vol. I, 186.

8. Ibid., vol. 1,115.

9. Ibn Ishaq, 82.

248

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
10. Ibid., 69.

11. Ibid., 83.

12. Ibid., 93.

13. The Sealed Nectar, 493.

14. Ibn Sa'd, vol. 1,491.

15. Muslim, book 30, no. 5776.

16. Ibn Sa'd, vol. I, 489.

17. Ibid., vol. I, 504.

18. Ibid., vol. I, 520.

19. Bukhari, vol. 9, book 91, no. 6982.

20. Ibn Sa'd, vol. I, 220.

21. Bukhari, vol. 9, book 91, no. 6982.

22. Ibn Sa'd, vol. I, 227.

23. Ibn Ishaq, 106.


249

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 24. Bukhari, vol. 6, book 65, no. 4953.

25. Ibn Ishaq, 106.

 26. Bukhari, vol. 9, book 91, no. 6982.

27. Ibn Ishaq, 107.

 28. Bukhari, vol. I, book I, no. 3.

29. Same.

30. Ibn Ishaq, 107.

31. Same.

 32. Bukhari, vol. 9, book 91, no. 6982.

 33. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 59, no. 3238.

 34. Bukhari, vol. 2, book 19, no. 1125.

Muhammad's Revelation and Its Sources: Chapter Four

1. Mishnah Sanhedrin 4:5.

  2. Parts of this collection were added later, after the time
of Muham Inad - but not the section containing the

250

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
material about Abraham. See Harry Freedman and
Maurice Simon, Bereshit Rabbah, Soncino, 1961. Vol. i
xxix.

  3. Some may even have tried to fool Muhammad. One
man who used to come talk with Muhammad later derided
him for perhaps being too credulous in accepting those
"tales of the ancients": "Muhammad is all ears: if anyone
tells him anything he believes it." Once again Allah
answered through the Prophet of Islam: "Among them are
men who molest the Prophet and say, 'He is (all) ear.' say
'He listens to what is best for you: he believes in Allah, has
faith in the Believers, and is a Mercy to those of you who
believe.' But those who molest the Messenger will have a
grievous penalty" (Qur'an 9:61). The Qur' an also calls
down divine woe upon those who write the Book with
their own hands, and then say: 'This is from Allah,' to
traffic with it for a miserable price! Woe to them for what
their hands do write, and for the gain they make thereby"
(2:79). And when speaking of the People of the Book,
Allah tells Muhammad: "As for those who sell the faith
they owe to Allah and their own plighted word for a small
price, they shall have no portion in the Hereafter. Nor will
Allah (deign to) speak to them or look at them on the Day
of Judgment, nor will He cleanse them (of sin). They shall
have a grievous penalty. There is a section among them
who distort the Book with their tongues: (As they read)
you would think it is a part of the Book, but it is no part of
the Book; and they say, "That is from Allah," but it is not
from Allah: It is they who tell a lie against Allah, and
(well) they know it! . . . If anyone desires another religion

251

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
than Islam (submission to Allah), it will never be accepted
of him and in the Hereafter he will be in the ranks of
those who have lost (all spiritual good). How will Allah
Guide those who reject Faith after they accept it and
bore witness that the Messenger was true and that clear
signs had come unto them? But Allah guides not a people
unjust" (Qur'an 3:77-78; 85-86). Did some of the Jews
mock Muhammad's prophetic pretensions by representing
their own writings, or folkloric or apocryphal material, as
divine revelation, and selling them to him?

 4. Bukhari, vol. 9, book 91, no. 6982.

 5. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 61, no. 3617.

  6. "The Arabic Gospel of the Infancy of the Savior," 1,
Wesley Center for Applied Theology,
http://wesley.nnu.edulbiblical_studies/non-
canon/gospels/infara b. htm.

 7. "The Arabic Gospel of the Infancy of the Savior," 36.

 8. Muslim, book 25, no. 5326.

  9. "The example of Muslims, Jews and Christians is similar
the example of a man who employed laborers to work for
him from morning till evening. They worked until mid-day
and they said, 'We are not in need of your reward.' So the
man employed another batch and said to them, 'Complete
the rest of the day and yours will be the wages I had fixed

252

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
(for the first batch).' They worked up until the time of the
'Asr prayer and said, 'Whatever we have done is for you.'
He employed another batch. They worked for the rest
the day till sunset, and they received the wages of the two
former batches." Bukhari, vol. 1, book 9, no. 558.

  10. W. St. Clair Tisdall, "The Sources of Islam," in The
Origins of the Koran: Classic Essays on Islam's Holy
Book, Ibn Warraq, editor, (New York: Prometheus Books,
1998), 281.

 11. Bukhari, vol. 1, book 1, no. 2.

12. Ibn Sa'd, vol. I, 228.

  13. Imam Muslim, Sahih Muslim, Abdul Hamid Siddiqi,
trans., Kitab Bhavan, revised edition 2000, book 30, no.
5764.

 14. Muslim, book 30, nos. 5766 and 5767.

 15. Bukhari, vol. 6, book 66, no. 4985.0

  16. Quoted in Ali Dashti, 23 Years: A Study of the
Prophetic Career of Mohammed, F. R. C. Bagley,
translator, (Costa Mesa: Mazda Publishers, 1994), 132.




253

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
  17. Abu Ja'far Muhammad bin Jarir al-Tabari, The
History of al-Tabari, Volume VIII, The Victory of Islam,
Michael Fishbein, translator, (New York: State University
of New York Press, 1997), 2.

  18. Bukhari, vol. 9, book 97, no. 7420. "Behold! Thou
didst say to one who had received the grace of Allah and
thy favor [Zaid]: 'Retain thou (in wedlock) thy wife, and
fear Allah.' But you did not hide in your heart that which
Allah was about to make manifest: you did not fear the
people, but it is more fitting that you should fear Allah.
Then when Zaid had dissolved (his marriage) with her,
with the necessary (formality), we joined her in marriage
to thee." Why? "In order that (in future) there may be no
difficulty to the Believers in (the matter of) marriage with
the wives of their adopted sons, when the latter have
dissolved with the necessary (formality) (their marriage)
with them. And Allah's command must be fulfilled."

19. Tabari, vol. 8, 3.

 20. Bukhari, vol. 9, book 97, no. 7420.

 21. Ibn Kathir, Tafsir Ibn Kathir (Abridged), volume 7,
Darussalam, 2000, 698.

 22. This is a prayer said at a time of distress.

 23. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 55, no. 2741.


254

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
  24. The followers of Muhammad during his lifetime are
known as his Companions. The COInpanions fell into two
groups: al-Muhajiroun, or the emigrants from Mecca, and
al-Ansar (helpers), the inhabitants of Medina who took in
those emigrants after the Muslims' flight (hijra) from
Mecca to Medina. The Aws and Khazraj were two Ansari
tribes.

 25. Bukhari, book 5, vol. 64, no. 4141.

 26. Bukhari, vol. 9, book 97, no. 7500.

  27. Zihar was a pre-Islamic method of divorce, whereby
a man would declare that his wife was to him like the back
of his mother.

 28. See also Bukhari, vol. 3, book 52, no. 2661.

  29. Ahmed ibn Naqib al-Misri, Reliance of the Traveller
('Umdat al-Salik): A Classic Manual of Islamic Sacred
Law, translated by Nuh Ha Mim Keller. Amana
Publications, 1999, 024.8.

  30. See Sisters in Islam, "Rape, Zina, and Incest," April
6, 2000,

http://www.muslimtents.com/sistersinislam/resou
rces/sdefini.htm1



255

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 31. See Stephen Faris, "In Nigeria, A Mother Faces
Execution," www.africana.co ln, January 7, 2002.

32. Emerick, 213.

33. Emerick, 52.

 34. Muhalnmad Husayn Haykal, The Life of
Muhammad, Isma'il Razi A. al-Faruqi, translator, 1968.
http://www.witness-pioneer.org/vil/Books/
MH_LM/default.htm.

  35. Karen Armstrong, Muhammad: A Biography of the
Prophet, (San Francisco: Harper San Francisco, 1992), 197.

36. Ibid., 202.

 37. Bukhari, vol. 7, book 77, no. 5825.

A Warning of Divine Punishment: Chapter Five

1. Ibn Ishaq, 115.

2. Ibid., 117.

 3. Bukhari, vol. 6, book 65, no. 4770.

4. Ibn Ishaq, 118.

256

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 5. Muslim, vol. I, book I, no. 406.

6. Emerick, 69.

  7. Tafsir Ibn Kathir (Abridged), Darussalam, 2000. Vol.
6, 39-40.

8. Ibn Ishaq, 181.

  9. Ibn Ishaq, 118; later in his biography Ibn Ishaq relates
another tradition

  that places the killing by Sa'd bin Abu Waqqas shortly
after the Hijra.

10. Ibn Sa'd, vol. I, 143.

11. Ibn Ishaq, I 30.

12. Ibid., 146.

13. Ibid., 131.

14. Ibid., 199.

15. Ibid., 212-213.

16. Qur'an 22:39-40.


257

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
17. Ibn Ishaq, 212-213.

 18. QuI' an 2: 193, Ibn Ishaq, 212-213.

  19. Abu Ja'far Muhammad bin Jarir al-Tabari, The
History of ai-Tabari, Volume VI, Muhammad at Mecca,
W. Montgomery Watt and M. V. McDonald, translators,
(New York: State University of New York Press, 1988),
107.

20. Ibn Ishaq, 165.

21. Ibn Sa'd, vol. I, 237.

22. Ibn Ishaq, 165-166.

  23. Ibn Ishaq, 166. The Gharaniq, according to Islam
scholar Alfred Guillaume, were "'Numidian Cranes' which
Muhammad said that they were
near Allah's throne, and that it was legitimate for Muslims
to pray to al-Lat, al-'Uzza, and Manat, the three goddesses
favored by the pagan Quraysh, as intercessors before
Allah.

24. Tabari, vol. vi, 109.

25. Ibid., vol. vi, Ill.

26. Ibn Ishaq, 166.

258

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
27. Ibid., 166-167.

 28. Haykal, "The Story of the Goddesses," in The Life of
Muhammad.

29. Emerick, 80.

30. Armstrong, Ill.

 31. Tabari, vol. vi, 107, 108.

 32. Ibn Sa'd, vol. I, 236-239.

 33. Bukhari, vol. 6, book 65, no. 4863.

34. Ibn Ishaq, 182.

 35. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 63, no. 3887.

36. Muslim, book I, no. 309.

37. Ibn Ishaq, 182.

 38. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 63, no. 3887.

 39. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 60, no. 3394.

 40. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 63, no. 3886.

259

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
41. Ibn Sa'd, vol. I, 248.

42. Ibn Ishaq, 183.

43. Same.

Muhammad Becomes a Fighter: Chapter Six

 1. Ibn Sa'd, vol. I, 261. This is the conventional dating;
however, Ibn Sa'd also records other traditions that differ
widely over the length of Muhammad's stay in Mecca.

 2. Bukhari, vol. 6, book 65, no. 4492.

3. Ibn Ishaq, 231-233.

4. Ibid., 239.

5. Ibid., 240-241.

 6. Bukhari, vol. 6, book 65, no. 4480.

7. Ibn Ishaq, 240-241.

 8. Bukhari, vol. 6, book 65, no. 4480.

9. Ibn Ishaq, 240-241.



260

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 10. Bukhari, vol. 6, book 65, no. 4480.

11. Ibn Ishaq, 240-241.

12. Ibn Sa'd, vol. 1,188.

  13. Ahmad Yon Denffer, 'Ulum al-Qur'an: An
Introduction to the Sciences of the Qur'an, The Islamic
Foundation, 1994, 136.

 14. Tafsir Ibn Kathir, vol. I, 87.

15. Ibn Ishaq, 247.

  16. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 56, no. 3012. Other traditions
(nos. 3014 and 3015) have Muhammad forbidding the
killing of women and children.

17. Ibn Ishaq, 287-288.

18. Ibid., 288.

19. Ibid., 256.

 20. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 60, no. 3394.

 21. Bukhari, vol. 6, book 65, no. 4493.


261

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
22. Ibn Ishaq, 259.

 23. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 61, no. 3635.

24. Ibn Ishaq, 267.

 25. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 61, no. 3635.

War is cunning: Chapter Seven

1. Ibn Sa'd, vol. 11,9.

2. Ibn Ishaq, 294.

3. Ibid., 297.

4. Ibid., 298.

 5. For various estimates on the number of Muslims
warriors, see Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 20-21.

6. Ibn Ishaq, 300.

7. Ibid., 300.

8. Ibid., 30 I.

 9. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 58, no. 3185.

262

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 10. Bukhari, vol. I, book 8, no. 520.

11. Ibn Ishaq, 308.

12. Ibid., 304.

 13. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 57, no. 3141.

 14. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 58, no. 3185.

15. Ibn Ishaq, 306.

 16. Steven Stalinsky, "Dealing in Death," National
Review Online, May 24, 2004.

 17. Bukhari, vol. I, book 8, no. 438.

18. Ibn Ishaq, 308.

19. Ibn Ishaq, 326-327.

20. Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 40.

  21. Abu Ja'far Muhammad bin Jarir al-Tabari, The
History of al-Tabari, Volume VII, The Foundation of the
Community, M. V. McDonald, translator, State University
of New York Press, 1987, 86.


263

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
22. Ibn Ishaq, 363.

23. Tabari, vol. VII, 86.

24. Ibn Ishaq, 363.

25. Ibid., 367.

 26. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4037.

27. Same.

28. Ibn Ishaq, 367.

  29. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4037; Ibn Sa'd, vol. II
37.

30. Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 37.

31. Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 39.

 32. Ibn Ishaq, 369; Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 36.

33. Ibn Ishaq, 369.

  34. "Man who knew some plot suspects says Islamic
'anger' prevalent," CBC News, June 16, 2006.


264

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
  35. Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 60-61.

36. Ibn Ishaq, 372.

37. Ibid., 381-382.

  38. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4065.

39. Ibn Ishaq, 382.

  40. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, chapter 22.

41. Ibn Ishaq, 386.

42. Ibid., 387. Muhammed was immediately convinced
to forbid mutilation, however, Islamic exegetes have
justified it today (notably after the Fallujah incident in Iraq
in 2004) by appealing to QuI' an 16: 126: "If ye punish,
then punish with the like of that wherewith ye were
afflicted."

  43. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4072; Ibn Ishaq, 376.

  44. Sayyid Qutb, Social Justice in Islam, translated by
John B. Hardie and Hamid Algar, revised edition, Islamic
Publications International, 2000, 19.

45. Tabari, vol. VII, 158.


265

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
46. Ibid., 159.

 47. Muslim, book 19, no. 4326.

48. Ibn Ishaq, 437.

49. Ibid., 437.

50. Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 70.

51. Ibn Ishaq, 438.

 52. Muslim, book 19, no. 4347.

Instigating Terror in the Hearts of Enemies: Chapter Eight

1. Ibn Ishaq, 450.

2. Ibid., 452.

  3. Abu Ja'far Muhammad bin Jarir al-Tabari, The
History of al-Taban, Volume VIII, The Victory of Islam,
Michael Fishbein, translator, (New York: State University
of New York Press, 1997), II.

4. Ibn Ishaq, 452.

5. Tabari, vol. VIII, 12.

266

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
6. Ibn Ishaq, 452.

7. Tabari, vol. VIII, 15.

8. Ibid., 16.

9. Ibn Ishaq, 454.

10. Ibid., vol. VIII, 17-18.

11. Ibn Ishaq, 45 5.

 12. Ibn Ishaq, 458; cf. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 56, no. 3030;
Muslim, book 32, no. 6303.

13. Ibn Ishaq, 459.

14. Ibid., 460.

 15. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 56, no. 2813.

16. Ibn Ishaq, 461.

17. Ibid., 462.

 18. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 56, no. 3043.

 19. Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 93; cf. Ibn Ishaq, 464.

267

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
20. Ibn Ishaq, 468-469.

  21. Abu-Dawud Sulaiman bin Al-Aash'ath AI-Azdi as-
Sijistani, Sunan abu-Dawud, Ahmad Hasan, translator,
Kitab Bhavan, 1990. Book 38, no. 4390.

22. Ibn Ishaq, 464.

23. Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 93.

24. Ibn Ishaq, 464.

 25. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4028. 26. W. N. Arafat,
"New Light on the Story of Banu Qurayza and the Jews of
Medina," Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great
Britain and Ireland, 1976, 100-107.

27. Emerick, 226.

28 Armstrong, 207-208.

  29. Yaakov Lappin, "UK Islamists: Make Jihad on
Israel," YNet News, July 2, 2006.

 30. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 57, no. 3128.

31. Ibn Ishaq, 490.


268

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 32. Bukhari, vol. 9, book 97, no. 7409.

  33. Ahmed ibn Naqib al-Misri, Reliance of the Traveller
('Umdat al-SaNk): A Classic Manual of Islamic Sacred
Law, translated by Nuh Ha Mim Keller. Amana
Publications, 1999, 09.13.

34. Ibn Ishaq, 491.

  35. Muslim, book 25, no. 5334. Other ahadith say that
Another of Muhammad's wives, Zaynab, was the one who
was originally named Barra.

36. Ibn Ishaq, 491.

 37. Muslim, book 32, no. 6255.

38. Ibn Ishaq, 492.

39. Ibn Ishaq, 492.

 40. Muslim, book 38, no. 6680.

 41. Muslim, book 38, no. 6681.

42. Emerick, 233.

43. Ibn Ishaq, 504.


269

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
44. Ibid., 504.

45. Same.

46. Ibn Ishaq, 509.

47. Emerick, 239.

48. Ibn Ishaq, 511.

49. Same.

50. Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 132-133.

51. Ibn Ishaq, 515.

52. Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 136.

53. Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 137.

54. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 57, no. 3152.

55. Muslim, book 10, no. 3761.

56. Ibn Ishaq, 515.

57. Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 137.


270

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
  58. Bllkhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4200. I

59. Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 142.

60. Ibn Ishaq, 516.

61. Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 249.

  62 Bllkhari, vol. 3, book 51, no. 2617.

63. Ibn Ishaq, 516.

  64. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4428.

  65. Bllkhari, vol. 4, book 58, no. 3169; cf. Ibn Sa'd, vol.
II, 144.

  66. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4242.

  67. Bukhari, vol. 1, book 8, no. 371.

  68. Muslim, book 8, no. 3329.

  69. Bukhari, vol. I, book 8, no. 371.

70. Same.




271

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
  71. Muhammad Al-Munajjid, "The true nature of the
Enmity between the Muslims and the Jews," Al-
Minbar.com,
http://www.alminbar.comlkhutbaheng/9022.htm; Steven
Emerson, "Prepared Statement of Steven Emerson Before
The Senate Judiciary Committee Subcommittee on
Terrorism, Technology and Government Information,"
February 24, 1998.
http://www.geocities.com/CollegePark/6453/emerson.html
.

Victory through Terror: Chapter Nine

1. Ibn Ishaq, 544.

2. Ibid., 545.

3. Ibid., 546.

4. Ibid., 547.

5. Ibid.

6. Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 168.

 7. Sunan Abu-Dawud, book 38, no. 4346.




272

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
  8. Bllkhari, vol. 7, book 76, no. 5727; cf. online edition
vol. 8, book 82, no. 794797.
http://www.usc.edu/dept/MSA/fundamentals/hadithsunnah
/bukhari/082.sbt.html.

 9. Bukhari, vol. 9, book 87, no. 6878.

 10. Bukhari, vol. 9, book 88, no. 6922; cf. vol. 4, book 56,
No. 3017.

  11. Dr. Ibrahim B. Syed, "Is Killing An Apostate in the
Islamic Law?" The American Muslim, April 2005.
http://theamericanmuslim.org/tam. php/fea tu
res/articles/shariah_is_kill i nan_a postate_in_the_
islamic_law/ "Pbuh" stands for "peace be upon him," and
is commonly added by pious Muslims after they mention
the name of a prophet.

12. Ibn Ishaq, 550-551.

13. Ibid., 552.

14. Ibid., 552-553.

15. Ibid., 554.




273

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
  16. Ibn Ishaq, 555. It is interesting to note that Emerick
renders "The apostle killed men in Mecca" as "the Prophet
of God fought in Mecca." See Emerick, 254.

17. Ibn Ishaq, 567.

18. Ibid., 569.

  19. Guillaume explains: "Ha'it means wall and also the
"garden which it surrounds."

20. Ibn Ishap, 589.

21. Ibn Ishaq, 595-596.

 22. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 56, no. 2941.

 23. Bukhari, vol. 9, book 93, no. 7196.

24. Ibn Sa'd, vol. I, 306.

 25. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4424.

 26. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 61, no. 3618.

  27. "Fight in the name of Allah and in the way of Allah.
Fight against those who disbelieve in Allah. Make a holy
war, do not embezzle the spoils; do not break your pledge;

274

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
and do not mutilate (the dead) bodies; do not kill the
children. When you meet your enemies who are
polytheists, invite them to three courses of action. If they
respond to any of these, you also accept it and
withhold yourself from doing them any harm. Invite them
to (accept) Islam; if they respond to you, accept it from them
them and desist from fighting against them. . . . If they
refuse to accept Islam, demand from them the Jizya. If
they agree to pay, accept it from them and hold off yours
hands. If they refuse to pay the tax, seek Allah's help and
fight them." Muslim, book 19, no. 4294.

  28. Abu'l Hasan al-Mawardi, al-Ahkam as-Sultaniyyah
(The Laws of Islamic Governance), Ta-Ha Publishers,
1996, 28.

 29. Ibn Sa'd, vol. I, 310-311.

30. Ibn Ishaq, 602.

31. Ibid., 608.

32. Ibid., 609.

 33. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 56, no. 2785.

  34. Muslim, book 10, no. 31; cf. Bukhari, vol. 1, book 2,
No. 25.



275

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
35. Ibn Ishaq, 645-646.

36. Ibid., 643.

 37. Muslim, book 19, no. 4366.

38. Ibn Sa'd, vol. 1,328.

 39. Ibn Sa'd, vol. 1,328-329.

 40. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 58, no. 3162.

41. Ibn Ishaq, 651.

  42. Sita Ram Goel, The Story of Islamic Imperialism in
India, Voice of

 India, revised edition 1994, 44.

43. Ibn Ishaq, 675.

44. Ibid., 676.

45. Same.

 46. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4430.

 47. Muslim, book 31, no. 6005.

276

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 48. Bukhari, vol. 7, book 75, no. 5666.

 49. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4450.

 50. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4428.

 51. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4439.

 52. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4431.

  53. Ibn Sa'd, vol. II, 244-245; Bukhari, vol. 7, book 76,
No. 5765.

 54. Bukhari, vol. 2, book 23, no. 1341.

  55. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, nos. 4441; vol. 2, book 23,
No. 1330.

 56. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4441.

 57. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4458.

 58. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 56, no. 2977.

 59. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4449.

 60. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 64, no. 4466.


277

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
61. Ibn Sa'd, vol. I, 164.

 62. Muslim, book 31, no. 5877.

 63. Bukhari, vol. I, book 10, no. 678.

 64. Muslim, book 31, no. 5916.

 65. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 55, no. 2741.




The Legacy of Muhammad: Chapter Ten

  1. "Vines calls the founder of Islam a 'demon-possessed.'
pedophile,'" Biblical Recorder, June 14, 2002.

 2. “U.S. Baptist Minister's Derogatory Remarks Sparks
Anger," IslamOnline, June 15, 2002.

  3. Bukhari, vol. 5, book 63, no. 3896; cf. Bukhari, vol. 7,
book 67, no. 5158.

4. Armstrong, I 57.

5. Tabari, vol. VII, 7.



278

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 6. “U.S. Baptist Minister's Derogatory Remarks Sparks
Anger," IslamOnline, June 15, 2002.

  7. Sarvnaz Chitsaz and Soona Samsami, "Iranian
Women and Girls: Victims of Exploitation and Violence,"
in Making the Hann Visible: Global Sexual Exploitation
of Women and Girls, Donna M. Hughes and Claire M.
Roche, editors, The Coalition Against Trafficking in
Women, 1999.
http://www.uri.edu/artsci/wms/hughes/mhviran.htm.

  8. Amir Taheri, The Spirit of Allah: Khomeini and the
Islamic Revolution, Adler and Adler, 1986, 90-91.

9. Taheri, 35.

  10. Lisa Beyer, "The Women of Islam," Time,
November 25, 2001. Reprinted at
http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8 599,185647
,00.html.

  11. "Child marriage 'violates rights,'" BBC News, March
7, 2001.

 12. Andrew Bushell, "Child Marriage in Afghanistan and
Pakistan," America, March II, 2002, p. 12.



279

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
13. Ibn Sa'd, vol. I, 439.

  14. Syed Saeed Akhtar Rizvi, The Life of Muhammad
the Prophet, Darul Tabligh North America, 1971.
http://www.al-islam.org/lifeprophet/.

 15. Bukhari, vol. I, book 6, no. 304.

 16. Bukhari, vol. 8, book 86, no. 6830.

17. Ibn Ishaq, 659-660.

 18. Bukhari, vol. 6, book 65, no. 4581.

 19. Bukhari, vol. 4, book 60, no. 3448.

  20. Sunan Abu Dawud, book 37, no. 4310. Bukhari, vol.
4, book 60, no. 3449.

 21. Muslim, book 41, no. 6985.

  22. Middle East Media Research Institute (MEMRI),
"Friday Sermons in Saudi Mosques: Review and
Analysis," MEMRI Special Report No. 10, September 26,
2002. www.memri.org. This undated sermon appeared on
the Saudi website www.alminbar.net shortly before the
MEMRI translation was made.


280

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
23. Ibn Kathir, vol. 4, 407.

 24. Robert Hussein, Apostate S071, Najiba Publishing
Company, 1998, 161.

  25. Farida Khanam, "Muhammad's Love and Tolerance
for Mankind," IslamOnline, March 15, 2006.
http://muhammad.islamonline.net/
English/His_Example/HisQualities/07.shtml

  26. Ibrahim Hooper, "What Would Prophet Muhammad
(pbuh) Do?,"

  Council on American Islamic Relations, February 4,
2006.

http://www.islaml0l.com/rights/wwpMdo.htm.

  27. "The SIMI I founded was completely different,"
Interview with Dr. Mohammad Ahmadullah Siddiqi
Rediff.com, September 2,
2003. http://www.rediff.com/news/2003/sep/02inter.htm.

28. Ibn Sa'd, vol. 1,422.

29. Ibid., 432.



281

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
30. Ibid., 433.

 31. Bukhari, vol. 9, book 87, no. 6911.

 32. Muslim, book 4, no. 2098.

 33. Muslim, book 4, no. 2026.

  34. Annemarie Schimmel, And Muhammad Is His
Messenger: The Veneration of the Prophet in Islam
Piety, (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press,
1985), 21.

35. Schimmel, 31.

36. Ibid., 35.

37. Same.

  38. Frithjof Schuon, Islam and the Perennial Philosophy,
J. Peter Hobson, translator. World of Islam Festival
Publishing Company, 1976,

29. Quoted in Schimmel, 29.

  39. Steven Stalinsky, "Palestinian Authority Sermons
2000-2003," Middle


282

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 East Media Research Institute, Special Report No. 24,
December 26, 2003.

40. Same.

  41. Adeyeye Joseph and Agaju Madugba, "Bomb Scare
in Lagos," This Day, November 22, 2003.

  42. Steven Stalinsky, "The 'Islamic Affairs Department'
of the Saudi Embassy in Washington, D.C.," Middle East
Media Research Institute (MEMRI) Special Dispatch No.
23, November 26, 2003.

 43. Ian Fisher, "A Tale of War: Iraqi Describes Battling
G.I.'s," New York Times, December 5, 2003.

  44. "Commander of the Khobar Terrorist Squad Tells the
Story of the Operation," Middle East Media Research
Institute Special Dispatch Series No. 731, June 15, 2004.

 45. Amir Taheri, "Kerry Wins The Arab Vote," New
York Post, August 18, 2004.

  46. "Our Struggle with the Jews is a Struggle for
Existence, Not a Struggle for Land," AI-Asaalah
Magazine, Issue 30. http://www.allaahuak-bar. net/j ew
/our_struggl e_with_the_j ews_is_a_struggl e_for
_existence.htm.

283

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
  47. "Al-Qa'ida Internet Magazine Sawt AI-Jihad Calls to."
Intensify Fighting During Ramadan - 'the Month of
Jihad,'" Middle East Media Research Institute, Special
Dispatch no. 804, October 22, 2004.

  48. Zaigham Ali Mirza, "Muslim society 'has lost ability
to strategise,'" Khalee; Times, November 3, 2004.

 49. Adil Salahi, "No Fighting Before Explaining Islam,"
Arab News, January 31, 2005.

  50. "President says his letter to President Bush was
invitation to Islam," Islamic Republic News Agency, May
II, 2006.

  51. "London Islamist Dr. Hani AI-Sibaai Justifies
Slaughters in Iraq: The Prophet Muhammad Used to
Slaughter As Well," Middle East Media Research Institute
(MEMRI) Clip No. 576, February 22, 2005.

  52. Yaakov Lappin, "UK Islamists: Make Jihad on
Israel," YNet News, July 2, 2006.

 53. "New Report On Saudi Government Publications,"
Center for Religious Freedom, January 28, 2005.




284

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad
 54. Debbie Schlussel, "Bush's scary CAIR friends,"
WorldNetOaily, October 16, 200 I.

 55. See, for example, Farahat AI-Abbar, "Norwegian
Magazine Apologizes for Cartoons," IslamOnline,
February 15, 2006.




285

Robert Spencer The Truth About Muhammad




286

