
Author: Shaban Hossein Mardashti


City of the Living God
A church for all nations

  Hendrik Consciencestraat 26
         2300 Turnhout
clg.turnhout@yahoo.com


First edition; April 2002
Belgium – Year 3027 Our Lord Jesus Christ

Can I trust the Bible?




Introduction

The word of God and its authenticity, authenticity, and credibility have always been the subject of one of the most controversial debates in the scientific and
It has been theology. Many people have tried in vain to discredit it; many have either accepted it or
The truth of God's existence as the creator, sustainer, regulator, ruler, and omnipotent being of this universe is problematic, or is it the truth?
contained in the Word of God, conflicts with their individual or group interests and endangers them.


This question may arise in the minds of believers in Christ in another way. Some may be caught up in this
They wonder if the Bible is really true? Or if the Bible has really been distorted or abrogated?
Can we today, like the Christians of the first centuries, use the Bible with deep confidence and trust as our guiding light?
Should we accept solid rocks to lean on?


In this regard, it is essential to note that we Christians do not worship the Bible. The Bible is for us, like
They are traffic signs that point us in a specific direction. They lead us to a person, Jesus Christ.
Remember that believing in the Word of God is not enough for salvation. We must believe in the One who has the Word of God.
It presents the only way out. Just as the traffic signs themselves do not take us anywhere, they
They only lead us in that direction.


It is important to note that the purpose of this booklet is to provide a brief overview of the evidence for the authenticity of the Bible, and it is obvious that addressing
It is beyond the scope of this article to delve deeply into this issue. However, at the same time, our impression is that the evidence and information provided in this
The booklet is more than enough to convince, or at least to stir and stir up, any truth-seeking mind.
This booklet is divided into three parts. In the first part, we examine the theory of the authenticity of the Bible and discuss the
We will discuss the importance of ensuring this. As a result, and in brief, some of the views of its critics
We will examine it, see its differences from other books, and study the Bible's view on this matter.



3

Can I trust the Bible?


In the second part, we will examine and prove the authenticity of the Bible through studying and understanding the correctness of its text, its proven accuracy.
We will discuss its contents and the profound impact it has had on the world around us. This section also discusses
It will briefly and concisely refer to how the Bible came to be as we have it today.


In the third part, we have only mentioned the words of famous men in history about the Bible. Please do not forget this point.
Expressing these words did not mean accepting all of their thoughts and actions, but at the same time, they were also something interesting.
They do not reduce.


My hope and prayer is that the spiritual blessing of this sincere effort will encompass all of you, beloved of God.


Your brother in the incomparable name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Pastor Hossein Mardashti

City Church of the Living God




4

Can I trust the Bible?




Part One



Let's dig around this issue a little.
Objections raised against the authenticity of the Bible
This book is different from other books.
The Bible's Testimony About Himself


5

Can I trust the Bible?




Let's dig around this issue a little.

You may be asking yourself why you should ponder the ramifications of this question? The answer to this question can be divided into two categories.
Appearance;


Existing misunderstandings (1)


The issue of Islam A -


One of the aspects that makes it necessary to study and believe in the authenticity of the Bible is the issue of Islam and Muslim beliefs about
It is their religion and creed. Muslims believe that their religion is the last and most complete of all religions. Although our purpose is to examine this
The claim is not true or false, but it is necessary to mention this point that the first look and comparison of their beliefs with the education
The Bible identifies the difference between them.


During my time as a minister of Christ and in the course of conversations with dear Muslim friends, one of the questions I constantly asked myself was:
The question I have encountered is; "Is it true that there is a prophecy in the Bible from the mouth of Christ in this regard?"
"Is it true that a prophet will appear after him whose name is Ahmad?"


This question may have occurred to you as well. In answer to this question, I would like to draw your attention to the words of Jesus Christ in
I am attracted to this story recorded in the Gospel of John; "Jesus said to him, 'I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to me except through me.'"
"No one comes to the Father except through me" (John 6:21).


The Muslim argument to justify this difference is that the Christian Bible has been distorted. Of course, it is very clear.
This claim has caused many misunderstandings, the solution to which lies in a careful examination of the Bible.



6

Can I trust the Bible?


Those who believe in the corruption of the Bible should ask themselves the question: In what context did this happen?
Did it happen at a certain time? Was it before the advent of Islam or after it?


Before the advent of Islam: If the argument of these dear ones is that this event happened before the advent of Islam, this question
It arises that why the Quran has no reference to this claim, and even in complete amazement at the importance and authenticity of the books?
Is the previous one correct? Here we will only mention two references from the Quran;


"So if you are in doubt about what We have sent down to you, ask those who were before you, the scholars of the People of the Book."
(Surah Yunus, verse 32)


"O Prophet, say to the People of the Book: 'O Jews and Christians, you have no value until you act according to the Torah and the Gospel.'"
2
And stand up for what God tells you (...Surah Al-Ma'idah, verse 67).


After the advent of Islam: If you believe that the Bible was distorted after the advent of Islam, knowing this point is important.
You may be interested to know that in the 8th, 7th, and 9th centuries, copies of the Bible, as we have them today, were distributed all over the world.
It was broadcast and, as we will show later, there was absolutely no possibility of its distortion.


The issue of other atheistic sects B.


Another reason for the importance of believing in the authenticity and completeness of the Bible is the existence of atheistic sects such as Jehovah's Witnesses.
Mormons and Seventh-day Adventists 3. These groups, in the name of Christ and claiming to have the best and purest


1
Please note that the use of Islamic sources in this booklet does not mean that true Christian pilgrims should accept it.
They consider it as an authoritative and authoritative reference for their faith. However, since dear Muslim friends who are probably readers of the
Those who consider this pamphlet to be authoritative and authoritative should at least accept its historical reality and testimony.
(Jehovah’s Witnesses, Mormons and The Seventh Day Adventists) 2. About these atheistic sects and their teachings


Their false and polytheistic teachings are documented by the author and are available to those interested.

7

Can I trust the Bible?


Christian education is actually spreading blasphemous and false information about God and the character of Christ. Some
These have tampered with the text and teaching of the Bible, and some have even gone further and questioned the quality of the Bible.
They have added other books to it at their own discretion.


Its importance (2)


Examining the authenticity of the Bible is of vital importance from another perspective. On the one hand, this aspect concerns believers
He is a Christian, and on the other hand, to those who have not yet believed in him.


For believers A -


You may ask yourself what significance this could have for Christian believers. After all, they have faith!
Every believer in Christ is faced with questions that require absolute faith to answer appropriately and in a godly way.
It is in the word of God. Some of these questions are as follows;


Do we trust the Bible enough to put its commands into practice? *
Do we trust the Bible enough to obey its laws?*
Do we trust the Bible enough to demand its promises from God or wait for them to come true?*


                                                                             For unbelievers b-


What do you want to do with the Bible? *


If for any reason you find yourself in this category, it is essential to ask yourself whether you are having trouble with the Bible.
Are you having trouble or are you fundamentally concerned with the existence of an eternal and eternal God as creator, sustainer, and judge?
Do you have a problem with this universe? If you are in the second category, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the goal of


8

Can I trust the Bible?


This booklet is not a proof of the existence of God. The Word of God clearly teaches us that; "The fool says in his heart, 'There is no God.'"
"There is no one" (Psalm 2:21 and 2:32).


I hope this frankness of tone has not offended you, for I have never asked anyone to speak the word of God.
He did not apologize, and our goal is not to apologize for stating the truth. But, dear friend, I am convinced from the bottom of my heart that
If you have a truth-seeking mind, reading this booklet to the end will be very beneficial for you because it will reveal some truths in
It will give you options that are undeniable.


But if you believe in the existence of God, if you know in your heart that the order of this universe will one day be dismantled and we will all face the same fate.
We will stand before His judgment seat, and your only problem is accepting the Bible as His inerrant word and eternal revelation to us.
It is the human race, I draw your close attention to what comes next.




9

Can I trust the Bible?




Objections raised against the authenticity of the Bible

I was recently reading some statistics about book publishing in the United States that you might also be interested in knowing.
In America, more than 30,000 volumes of books are published every year in various fields. However, according to many, there are still
Among this diversity of the book market, the Bible has a special place for itself, because it is the only book that tells us how to find
God teaches us how to live rightly and receive eternal life.


Of course, it must be said that there are still many people who do not agree with this view. They say that the Bible is full of
It is a mistake and error and is certainly not written by God. Below, I will mention some of the arguments of this group for your information.
We do;


The Bible is not scientifically accurate (1)


This group, due to their natural inclinations and way of thinking, is unable to accept the narrations that relate to the miracles of God. The Word
God is full of accounts of miracles performed by the power of God.


Some of these miracles, which are incomprehensible and incomprehensible to the physical human mind, are as follows:


How did the sun stop moving? (Joshua 20:22-23)*
How did God provide food from heaven for the Israelites? (Exodus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua, Nehemiah, and Psalm 31:78)*
How did Jonah survive for three days in the belly of the great fish? (Jonah 2:27)


Those who ask such questions are deprived of knowing a very important truth: that our God is a God.
The supernatural is the God of extraordinary acts.



10

Can I trust the Bible?


The Bible is not historically accurate (2)


This group is unable to accept the historical truth of the Bible because they expect that all the names and events recorded in it will be traced back to the Bible.
find in some way in archaeological discoveries. This belief seems to have no problem on the surface, but it should be kept in mind that Omar
Our progress in archaeology is very limited; and it is your and my decision today that will determine our future and eternity.
The key point here is that most people who seek tangible and clear evidence to prove
Their opinions have no evidence!


The Bible is obsolete (3)


Although this group still uses books written even more than two thousand years ago as reference books,
They have no doubt about its validity and reliability, but as the founders of so-called modern philosophy and theories in the field of life,
They argue that the Bible has nothing to say about today's human society, especially when the conversation turns to
Gender is marriage, ethics, and work.


A conscious look at such motivations reveals their double standard in this regard; an old idea that inefficiency
They promote what has been proven to everyone, while shamelessly rejecting God's thoughts that are effective and true.
They read old and irrelevant.


The Bible is the work of human hands (4)


This group believes that the Bible is a product of the human mind and the product of superstitious traditions and ancient mythology.
The people of the Middle Ages. They looked to the Bible and ancient Greek mythology with its Olympian gods or the writings of
They look at Confucius or even the books of Muhammad with one eye. As a result, for them the Bible is just a religious book.
Many people have not accepted the fact that the Bible is the Word of God. They even
They have been strongly criticized and protested that the Bible can be relied upon for life and for information about our ultimate destination.

11

Can I trust the Bible?


But as we will see, denying the Bible is like closing our eyes to all the evidence that proves its truth and validity.
They prove it. But the most important harm resulting from this view is ignoring the spiritual need of man and the freedom and salvation that exist.
It's in its message.




12

Can I trust the Bible?




This book is different from other books.

The only difference between the Bible and other books is that it did not come from God. Muslims also claim that the Quran was revealed by an angel.
The angel Gabriel appeared to Muhammad. Joseph Smith, the founder of Mormonism, claimed that God gave him a special revelation.
which was engraved on golden tablets, and other religions also believed that their holy books were from God.
They emphasize that the Bible is different from all other books in the following ways:


The vision it offers of God (1)


A - The Bible introduces God as "the Almighty God of all the earth" (1 Chronicles 22:33).
The Bible describes God as “a God of mercy, love, and goodness” (Psalm 3:213b).
The Bible identifies God as "one God" (Deuteronomy 1:6).


Other religions portray God as a harsh, vengeful, and unloving being. Mormons believe that
There are countless gods. Gods who were originally human and that humans have the ability to one day transform into
On the other hand, the Bible declares that the one God, in the unique form of Jesus Christ, is
He became human.


An English-born expert in comparative religions, J.N.D. Anderson, in his book Christianity and Religion,
Page 32 writes: "Other religions may indeed include the belief that God, whether one God or
Many gods have revealed themselves to mankind at one time or another, and in human form...


But it is only Christianity that has had the courage to declare that God is one, omnipotent, and omniscient.
Beings have entered into the lives of their creatures in a special way, not only by taking on human form but also by
"Actually through incarnation."

13

Can I trust the Bible?


The perspective it offers of humanity (2)


While the holy books of other religions glorify man or lower him below his true status, this
My book is Quds, which presents a balanced and realistic picture of him.


The Bible does not show man to be more than he is. A -


As Heraclitus said, "Gods are immortal men, and men are mortal gods."


The Bible does not portray man as less than he is. B-


As one of the contemporary psychologists, B.F. Skinner, says; "Man is nothing but a complex organism that
"He is under the control of the circumstances of his environment." But the Bible sees both sides of man;


Regarding his creation in the image and likeness of God, he says: A.


"So God created Adam in His own image" (Genesis 2:37).


It clearly reveals the root of humanity's problem.


"For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God" (Romans 2:32).


He does not conceal the consequences of human sin.

1
A Greek philosopher who, in 1550 BC, believed that the universe was a composite being composed of four elements.
He is also known as the weeping philosopher. He said that everything is in change and evolution and nothing is constant except
The "Word" (Logos) is the universal law and governing factor of the universe of existence, and this is fire.

14

Can I trust the Bible?


"For the wages of sin is death" (Romans 6:32).


It identifies the role of humans in solving the problem.


"For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish."
"He shall not perish, but have eternal life" (John 2:26).


It gives people hope for the future.


"...but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord" (Romans 6:32).


"...I have come that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly" (John 20:20).


"And God shall wipe away every tear from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain."
"There will be no more pain, for the first things have passed away" (Revelation 1:32).


The vision it offers of salvation (3)


Salvation, as presented in the Bible, is completely different from the inhuman and cruel views of worldly religions.
is;


A - Hindus often engage in hard work and even self-harm to gain God's favor.
B - Buddhists have for themselves the eightfold path of abstinence and asceticism.
C - In order to be approved by God, Muslims must observe a series of dietary restrictions, fasting, and prayer.
To obey.



15

Can I trust the Bible?


But the Bible presents salvation not through works but in a person, Jesus Christ. Salvation from the Bible’s perspective is not
It is not through human works but through grace—which is the gift of God—by faith.


A perspective that presents truth (4)


While other religious books are full of unverified claims and philosophical fabrications, the geographical and historical facts support
Everything that is in the Bible is true. This truth is the reason why first-century Christians insisted on the gospel of Jesus Christ.
The people accepted their message not just on the basis of their words but on the basis of documented facts.


If the Bible is capable of providing convincing evidence that it was truly revealed by God, then this is a good reason to
Acceptance is the power and authority of it. This is exactly the same model that we use in other aspects of life. For
For example, when we get sick, we don't go to a doctor for examination and treatment. Instead, we seek out a qualified person.
This is what we are going for. Here, let us delve together into the deeper aspects of life;


Who do we consult about major life decisions? A -
Where do we go to know and distinguish right from wrong? B-
When feelings of guilt and weakness fill our entire being, to whom or where do we turn? Q-
How can we gain our salvation, the necessary information about the future and the hope of life?
Shall we find the door beyond the grave?


It is necessary to mention once again that if we have the necessary evidence to prove the fact that the Bible is the Word of God,
If we accept it, then we will have a book that is reliable and trustworthy. A book that no other book in the world can match.
It has not matured and cannot compete with it.




16

Can I trust the Bible?




The Bible's Testimony About Himself

The evidence for the authenticity of the Bible begins with the unusual statements surrounding it. While studying the Bible, the first
The point that catches our attention is that all its authors were completely convinced that this word was from
God. In this topic, we will examine three categories of statements in this regard:


The Bible testifies to its authenticity (1)


The Bible first declares that the Word of God is for mankind (2 Timothy 2:26; 2 Peter 2:30-32).
Although, according to some, this evidence is not strong enough to accept its validity, it must be accepted that for a start
It's a very appropriate place. Because if the Bible didn't do this, then we would have to assume it. In this regard,
The Bible declares that, although written by human authors, it is essentially the inspired word of God.
It must be accepted that as the inspired word of God, this book can be trusted.


The concept of inspiration or revelation A.


What does it mean when the Bible is inspired? First of all, we must say that we mean a feeling or inspiration that comes to the mind.
A writer or poet comes up with a story or a piece of poetry while writing, or even a solution that comes to mind for a repairman.
It doesn't come up while troubleshooting a system or repairing a device.


In fact, this means that the writing of all parts of the Bible was initiated by God and carried out under His control.
The Holy Spirit supernaturally inspired Moses, Isaiah, Matthew, Paul, and other Bible writers to write God's message.
This truth is mentioned in many key verses of the Bible. In this article, we will look at three examples.
We will mention them;



17

Can I trust the Bible?


"All Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness" (II Cor.
(2 Timothy 2:26)


"Know this first, that no prophecy of scripture is of any prophet's own interpretation, for prophecy never comes by the will of man."
"For it was not brought by spirit, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit" (2 Peter 2:30).
.)32 -


"Which things also we speak, not in words taught by human wisdom, but which the Holy Spirit teaches."
"We teach and gather spiritual with spiritual" (1 Corinthians 3:22).


The Bible declares that the Word of God is powerful, living, and indestructible.


"That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have touched,
He spoke about the Word of life. And the life was manifested, and we have seen it, and testify to it, and declare to you.
Of the eternal life, which was with the Father, and was manifested unto us. That which we have heard and seen declare we unto you.
"that you also may have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father, and with his Son Jesus Christ" (1 John 1:11).
.)2 - 2 : 2


"For the word of God is living and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of
"He is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart" (Hebrews 1:23).


"For you have been born again, not of perishable seed but of imperishable, through the word of God, which lives and endures forever."
For all flesh is like a plant, and all its glory is like the flower of the plant. The plant withers, and its flower falls.
"But the word of God abides forever. And this is the word which was preached to you."
(1 Peter 2:32-33)


18

Can I trust the Bible?


Both the Old Testament and the New Testament, 2 are God's message for people of all ages and are trustworthy.


Christ testifies to the authenticity of the Bible (2)


For all of us, the credibility and character of someone who testifies to the truthfulness and authenticity of an issue, or even the multitude of witnesses, is very important.
It is important. Of course, no one gives a damn about the words of the lying shepherd, and the reason for this is, of course, completely understandable.
It is understanding.


But when a person is known for his honesty, his support of the oppressed, his wise words, his great deeds, and
His extraordinary feat, as well as his triumphant resurrection after death, is worthy of trust and respect. It tells us something.
His words and every point he makes should be taken very seriously. The only person who, according to history, has such a
There are certain characteristics, Jesus Christ is our Lord.


While Jesus was on earth and among the people, he confirmed the Bible's claim to be the Word of God.
Through what he said about the Bible and how he used its verses, the Son of God actually showed us that
The Bible is truly the Word of God and therefore has power and authority. In this regard, please note the following points:


The titles he used for the Bible are a sign of its authenticity. A.


"The Word of God" (Mark 7:22, John 20:23)
"Writing, books, heavenly book" (Luke 1:32, John 23:3, 23:20) *
"The judgment of God" (Mark 8:7) *




1
Please note that such divisions were invented by theologians to facilitate the study of God's Word.
and in no way does it indicate a preference or qualitative superiority.

19

Can I trust the Bible?


He confirms the events and people mentioned in the Old Testament as historical facts.


"Adam and Eve" (Matthew 23:1-3) *
"Noah and the Flood" (Matthew 23:27-31) *
"Jonah, the Queen of Sheba, Solomon" (Matthew 23:28-12) *
"Lot, Lot's Wife, and the City of Sodom" (Luke 27:23-38) *


He proclaims his statements as the word of God and worthy of trust.


(Gospel of John 13:23-18)*

He held people accountable for what was written in God's Word.


(Matthew 2:23) *


He used the Bible as his only means of responding to his critics.


(John 23:20) is a repetition of (Psalm 83:6). *
(Matthew 23:33) is a repetition of (Exodus 23:6) 2. *
(Matthew 11:33-13) is a repetition of Psalm 2:220. *


He used the power of God's Word to neutralize Satan's temptations in the wilderness.


(Matthew 20:7, 1:1) *


When Jesus was on earth and among the people, the incarnate Word of God confirmed the authenticity of His written Word!


20

Can I trust the Bible?


The writers of the Bible testify to its authenticity (3)


The authors of the Bible also confirm its claim to be the Word of God;


Through their attitude and opinion about the divine books A -


When Daniel read Jeremiah's prophecy about the seventy-year captivity in Babylon, he accepted it as truth and *
Accordingly, he began to pray and plan (Daniel 3:3).
The Apostle Peter affirms the supernatural origin of the writings of the Old Testament prophets (2 Peter 2:32).
Peter also acknowledges the supernatural origin of Paul's writings, which is not easy for everyone to understand (2 Cor.
                                                                                   Peter. 26-23: 2
The Apostle John presents the writings of other apostles and himself as the inspired and authoritative Word of God *
                                                                                     (1st John) 6:1


By viewing ourselves as communicators of the Word of God.


The prophet Isaiah begins his book by declaring this truth: "The Lord speaks..." (Isaiah 3:2).
Jeremiah begins his prophecy thus: "Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying, "...Jeremiah 1:2*
God commissioned Ezekiel to go to the people and tell them, "Thus says the Lord GOD:" (Ezekiel *
(22:2)
The apostle Paul declares that his word is directly from God (Galatians 2:22-23, 1 Thessalonians 2:22-23).
(22:3)


In summary, it can be concluded that the Bible, Jesus Christ, and the writers of the books all have a divine origin.
They testify to its existence.



21

Can I trust the Bible?




Part Two




The preserved text of the Bible
The proven accuracy and authenticity of the Bible
The profound and profound influence of the Bible
How did the Bible come to us?


22

Can I trust the Bible?




The preserved text of the Bible

One of the signs of the Bible's reliability is the extraordinary preservation of its text from any distortion or tampering.
This protection can be seen in the following two aspects:


Unity in Diversity (1)


Human writings have two characteristic features: one is the absence of unity and the other is contradiction. Books that
Written about a subject by different authors, with conflicting philosophies, events, style, or points of view.
They are. Even those written by the same author may have thematic or logical contradictions.
Those who have devoted their lives to the study of God's Word have always been impressed by the unity of subject matter and consistency in teaching and doctrine.
They were amazed.


I once offered to buy a collection of books from Josh McDowell, a famous scholar and defender of Christianity.
"Great Books of the Western World" was given. This series of books includes manuscripts of leaders of intellectual movements in the history of civilization.
Mr. McDowell asked the seller of these books to list ten of the authors mentioned in this series of books, which are in
Choose a period of time, with a single policy, in a single country, and speak a single language, and ask them about
Ask a fundamental question of life. The goal was to see if they could agree on the answer to that question.
The representative of the publishing company replied, "Are you kidding me? The answer to this question is Ash-Sheleh Qalamkar (concoction)
"Of course, the seller's opinion is that their answers will be so different that including them in one
The set is impossible.


The amazing unity of the Bible is one of the factors that proves to us that it is worthy of trust. From Genesis
Until Revelation, the Bible tells us a single story: the salvation of man from sin through the death of Jesus Christ.
The Old Testament introduces him as the hope of humanity, and the New Testament shows us the fulfillment of that hope.

23

Can I trust the Bible?


Now, if the Bible had been written at one time and by one author, understanding the unity of subject matter in general teaching and even
The details contained therein were not difficult. But let us take a look at the incredible diversity of biblical sources;


The Bible was written by forty different authors. A -
The Bible was written over a period of 1055 years. B-
The Bible was written in three languages: Hebrew, Greek, and Aramaic.
The writers of the Bible have completely different backgrounds and policies: among them we have T-
We see very diverse people with even more diverse characteristics than themselves. Some of them are God's prophet (Jeremiah), priest
(Zechariah), shepherd (Amos), king (David), servant (Nehemiah), doctor and historian (Luke), tax collector (Matthew), and even
They were Pharisees (Paul).
The Bible was written on three continents: Asia, Africa, and Europe.
A gap of four hundred years separates the Old and New Testaments. Despite this diversity,
And diversity, the Bible is a single book. Just as the trunk, roots, branches, and leaves are parts of a tree.
The different parts of the Bible together form a whole. The Bible is a source of education.
The details of the prophecies, what was said about Jesus Christ, and the offer of salvation for humanity have unity and integrity.
The Bible is a collection of different books in a common and unified focus. The Bible,
It is a reliable book.


Text preservation and preservation (2)


The Bible is reliable because of the miraculous preservation of its text. Of course, it is important to note that none of the manuscripts
The original manuscripts of the Bible are not available. They were all either lost or destroyed centuries ago. This has caused
Some critics of the Bible question the authenticity of the texts available to us today.
Fortunately, we can be sure that the Bible we have is a translation of texts that were translated for technical and scientific reasons.
In practice, there is no difference from the original texts. Let us examine each part of the Bible separately here;



24

Can I trust the Bible?


                                                                         Old Testament A -


The books of the Old Testament were written mainly in Hebrew. They were written on papyrus or parchment scrolls.
And when the existing version was no longer usable, they would make a new copy and destroy the old one.
They were winning.


But this copying was not as easy as we might imagine. They used today's advanced printing presses.
They did not have any tools at hand and all the steps were done by hand. To prevent any errors, Bible scholars
In the stages of copying manuscripts, they used and followed very strict and precise rules. This method was developed with the emergence of a group of
It was perfected by Jewish scholars called the Masoretes between 300 and 300 AD.


Because of the method used by the Masoretes, it can be confidently asserted that all the Hebrew texts of the Old Testament
From the year 300 AD onwards, they are completely free from defects and errors. Now, the question may arise in your mind:
All the books of the Old Testament were written many years before that date. For example, the date of writing of the book of Malachi, which is the last
It is an Old Testament book, dating back to 100 BC. Is there any reason to believe that manuscripts were copied before that date?
Does it exist or not? This question was raised in 2317 with the discovery of texts from the Old Testament, later known as the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Archaeological discoveries and studies show that these manuscripts were obtained at least
They were copied 2000 years before the first Masoretic text, and a comparison of their texts shows no differences.
In this way, we can confidently say that the Old Testament has been accurately preserved throughout history, and as a result, we can accept it as the Word of God.
Trustworthy God, we can study.


                                                                                New Testament b-


Everything that has been said about the Old Testament is also true of the New Testament. Although its text has been copied thousands of times,
It was copied and circulated among the churches of the early centuries. It can be safely said that the passage of time has not damaged the authenticity of the text.



25

Can I trust the Bible?


It has not been imported. New Testament scholars and textual experts have discovered thousands of manuscripts of the New Testament.
They have studied the new D very carefully.


They have given us the assurance that the text from which the New Testament is translated is written in perfect accordance with the original manuscripts.
by Matthew, Paul, and other New Testament writers. Of course, there are many minor differences, but none of them
These differences do not change the meaning of the verses in which they are found.


Most of these differences are in the dictation of words. For example, we can use the English syllable "Labour" () which means "work" and
(Labor) which is the American syllable with the same meaning, he mentioned. Considering the large number of manuscripts of the New Testament found, it is bold to
It can be said that its texts are among the best and most documented manuscripts of their time. Please refer to the table below.
Do:


Oldest
Number of manuscripts Time interval Time of writing Book title
Existing version
1
                8 1055 055 BC, 155 - 005 BC, History of Thasidades
                8 1055 1155 AD 028 - 088 BC History of Herodotus
               25 1555 1155 AD 155 AD History of Tacitus
15 - 0 005 055 AD 05 – 08 BC History of the Gallic Wars of Caesar
25 055 055 AD 00 BC to 11 AD Roman history Aleutian
2
Footnotes 015 - 05 120 AD 155 - 05 AD New Testament


Two discoveries in recent years have added important evidence for the authenticity and correctness of the New Testament text.
The first of these pieces of evidence is the Ryland Library Papyrus. In this library, a portion of chapter 28 of the Gospel of John is found.



1
Before the birth of Christ
2
More than 1,555 copies in Greek, 15,555 copies in Latin, and 1,055 copies in other languages.

26

Can I trust the Bible?


There is one that dates back to 233 AD. The second is the Chester Pitty papyrus collection. This
The collection includes almost all the books of the New Testament, estimated to be between 300 and 373 AD.


Numerous in-depth studies and work on the Old and New Testaments by prominent scholars, most of whom are
They are not Christians, and give us every reason to believe that their text is accurate and consistent with their original texts; even if this
The original texts are not available to us today. This unity and preservation is another reason for the reliability of the Bible.




27

Can I trust the Bible?




The proven accuracy and authenticity of the Bible

When the Bible discusses historical, scientific, or future events, the accuracy of these materials can provide another reason for
What do you expect from a cookbook? You probably never look for a recipe written by a chef.
You don't die from eating nothing but rice pudding all your life. Your first expectation is that the writer has the skills to
It is a kitchen and can provide you with all the measurements and cooking times accurately. In addition, everyone is looking for food.
There are some whose contents are also tonic and nutritious.


If we have such expectations from a simple cookbook, then how much higher do our expectations go when dealing with a book
We have a book that claims to contain the word of God and is based on His work and His relationship with man. We have this right.
Given the importance of the Bible, we should expect the highest standards of accuracy and truthfulness from its contents.
In this regard, the question may arise: were the writers of the Bible aware of the true nature of what they were doing?
Were they perfect? Are the history, science, and prophecies of the Bible reliable?


In a book where the history of the human race and the revelation of God's presence are so intertwined, if there is any reason to doubt the
What it says about humanity and this world exists, so we can also understand its contents and what it says about God.
He says he was filled with doubt and doubt. If even a part of the Bible could be proven to be false, this would be the truth.
Other parts of it also face doubt and suspicion. Although there is no reason for us to worry because the Bible
It has demonstrated its accuracy in the fields of history, science, and its fulfilled prophecies.


The historical accuracy of the Bible (1)


The Bible claims to be an accurate record of the true history of mankind. Throughout the Old and New Testaments, we see the names of tribes and individuals.
We are, in particular, specific places and also specific events. The world of the Bible is a fictional and mythical world.
No. All the events recorded in the Bible happened in this world of yours and mine, and to people like us. Many of the

28

Can I trust the Bible?


Controversial issues about the accuracy of the Bible have been answered by archaeological discoveries. Today's archaeologists
They discover more evidence to prove the truth of the events recorded in the Bible.


For example, the Old Testament mentions a people called the "Hittites" nearly 60 times. For centuries, paleontologists and others
who were studying the ancient world, claiming that there was no evidence to prove the existence of this people,
They questioned the Bible. Although in 2306, the capital of the "Hittites" was located 260 kilometers east of Ankara in
2
Modern-day Turkey was discovered.


Over time, the critics' questions were answered one by one by archaeological authorities through findings and
Their discoveries are answered. A Jewish archaeologist named Nelson Glowack says; "It can be boldly said
He said that so far, no archaeological discoveries have proven anything contrary to what is mentioned in the Bible.
(River in the Desert Magazine, Neteg History, page 22.)


All the contents of the New Testament have also been supported through studies, research, and discoveries. For example, the Bible
Luke and Acts, both written by Luke, are respected by scholars who study their writings about
People, working in different places in the Jewish and Roman worlds of that time, are supposed to be "F.F. Bruce" about Luke
He writes: "A man whose accuracy and correctness have been proven in places that are testable and testable for us,
"It can be true even in places where its truth cannot even be tested by us" (quoted from the Book of Testament Documents)


1
People who are mentioned repeatedly in the Old Testament: 1 time by their original name and 10 times as descendants of the Hittites
(Genesis 10:15) Their place of residence was near Hebron; their land is also the burial place of Sarah, Abraham's wife (Genesis 20).
Jacob's brother Esau took for himself a wife from their daughters (Genesis 20:00 and 2:00). The spies whom Moses sent to spy out
When God sent them to the Promised Land, they were found dwelling in the highlands (Numbers 20:10). At the time of the conquest of the Promised Land, they were the inhabitants of Canaan and
They also fought with the Israelites (Joshua 1:0-2 and 11:0). They later lived in the land of Israel because the descendants of Luz lived in the land of Aba and
Their ancestors had built cities for themselves (Judges 1:20). Even after the complete conquest of the Promised Land, they were not driven out, and many of them
The Israelites married them, and their traces are found among David's followers (1 Samuel 20:0). Uriah, Bathsheba's husband,
David killed her from the Hittites (2 Samuel 11:0). King Solomon had many Hittite wives in his harem (1 Kings 11:11).
1.) They were used as laborers (1 Kings 21-25:0).

29

Can I trust the Bible?


New Testament /Are They Reliable?/Page 30.) The reliability of what the New Testament says about the physical world around us
It leads us to a fundamental belief, he says; the truth that what is true about the spiritual world around us is also true about the
"It is true," says John Warwick Montgomery, "a historian of Jesus Christ."
What does he know? The first thing he knows is that all the New Testament evidence for the image they have of him is false.
He knows that none of the New Testament books were written by a benevolent, biased view, with presuppositions that
"The philosophical and literary maneuvers are not rationally justified and manipulated" (History and Christianity, p. 10).


The scientific accuracy and reliability of the Bible (2)


Are the Bible and science in conflict? Should we choose between living by religious faith or scientific knowledge?
Sometimes, due to the statements of some, this doubt may arise in our minds that choice is a legitimate right.
But in reality, this is not the case. This apparent dispute is the result of baseless conclusions on both sides; those
who go beyond the proper and correct interpretation of Bible verses, or even those who step beyond the limitations of
Science has been trying to equate hypothesis with science.


The whole debate began in Galileo's time over the fact that some religious leaders at the time were unjustifiably and without knowledge.
In scientific circles, they started talking nonsense about this and said that the Earth is the center of the solar system. This controversy and
In another form, it continues today. A group draws such (and sometimes very short-sighted) conclusions based on scientific information.
They say that all living things are the result of evolutionary processes that began with the smallest vital particle.


Another group (us!) interprets this information differently and says that this complex form of life that we see,
It can only be the result of the extraordinary work and creation of a divine and superior power. Those who do not believe in miracles,
Those who say that all the miracles recorded in the Bible actually happened are in constant conflict.
All these conflicts are the result of a lack of belief in God. Such people are at odds with those who believe in a supernatural God who is in
Different times have entered into their creative affairs, believing that they are in constant opposition.



30

Can I trust the Bible?


The basis of this apparent difference between science and the Bible is not the difference between actual and recorded information, but rather in opinions and
Their conclusion is implicit. The information and knowledge are the same for both groups. The Bible is a purely scientific book.
It is not and usually uses the language of brevity and storytelling to express the truths of life, which sometimes uses the language of science to explain.
They are not. For example, in the Bible, there is talk of the four corners of the world or the location and position of the sun. Of course, science is not
He does not agree with these statements and considers them incorrect. However, it should be kept in mind that these sentences should never be taken literally.
be taken literally. When the Bible speaks directly about scientific matters, its word is completely
It is correct, acceptable and in accordance with scientific principles.


In the final analysis, the Bible and science are in complete agreement. The God who created the universe and the laws that govern the world
The God who administers the Bible is the same God who inspired the Bible. He is the true God and never contradicts.
It does not act according to its own laws and does nothing contrary to its own nature. Therefore, when the Bible is correctly interpreted,
interpreted and interpreted, and as sciences reach reasonable conclusions, they will be in complete agreement with each other.


The authenticity and accuracy of the prophecies and predictions of the Bible (3)


About the doctor who assured you that you would never have a heart attack and then immediately after leaving his office
What do you think about a politician who promises economic prosperity and then...
How do the effects of misguided policies multiply economic problems?


In such cases, you are perfectly justified in doubting what they say about the future. Perhaps even to yourself.
Tell me, who can really be trusted? The Bible is not like that! The Word of God has proven its trustworthiness by
It has been delivered.


The Bible has never erred in its assessment of human problems, never made empty promises.
It has never given mankind an excuse to believe that the Word of God is a collection of myths, meaningless words, and a
He has not given a single word of lies.

31

Can I trust the Bible?


Another sign of the Bible's reliability is the accuracy of its prophecies. In fact, it is the Bible itself that
It provides us with a pattern for recognizing those who speak with authority about the future. The Word of God says:
The test of a prophet's authority is in the accuracy and truthfulness of his predictions (Deuteronomy 28:30-33). There are hundreds of prophecies in the Bible.
There are different ones. So we can test them by the standard of the word itself.


Some of the most exciting fulfilled prophecies in the Bible are about Jesus Christ. For example, in the books of Isaiah (Isaiah 11:1-11),
Chapter 33, verse 22 to chapter 32, verse 23 (as well as Psalm 33) record the details of his death on the cross. It is interesting
Know that these prophecies were fulfilled centuries before this punishment even entered the scene of existence.
Please note the following, which has been done step by step;


Fulfillment of prophecy
Gospel of Luke 1:00-20:1 Virgin Birth Isaiah 10:1
Gospel of Matthew 1:2 Birth in Bethlehem Micah 2:0
Matthew 20:1 His name will be Immanuel Isaiah 10:1
Matthew 10:12-10 His ministry in Galilee Isaiah 3:2-3
         The Gospel of Matthew 11:21-1: Zachariah's triumphant entry 0:0
Matthew 20:20 - 25:20 His friend betrays him Psalm 0:01
Matthew 8:00-20:00 They accuse him of wrongdoing Psalm 11:00
Matthew 10:12-21 Remains silent in the face of slanderers Isaiah 1:00
John 20:25 They drive nails into his hands and feet Psalm 10:22
John 8:21 He was crucified with thieves Isaiah 12:00
John 20:10 - They cast lots for his clothes Psalm 18:22
John 10:00 They will not break his bones Psalm 25:00
          Gospel of John 28:10 Thirst on the cross Gospel of Psalm 10:22
Matthew 05 - 01:21 He is laid in a rich man's grave Isaiah 0:00




32

Can I trust the Bible?


Another amazing example of fulfilled Bible prophecy is the destruction of the city of Tyre. Centuries before this
Incidentally, the prophet Ezekiel had predicted that the city of Tyre would be destroyed and even its ruins would be buried in the sea and would never be seen again.
It will never be rebuilt (Ezekiel 36). This happened just as it was said. First of all, Nebuchadnezzar destroyed the city.
It was destroyed and then Alexander the Great used its ruins to build a causeway connecting the island to the mainland.
This earthen bridge today is a silent witness to the truth of Bible prophecy.


Daniel accurately predicted the succession of four great empires: Babylonians, Medes/Persians, Greeks, and Romans.
(Daniel chapters 3 and 7)


God's punishment for Nineveh (Nahum 2-3), Ammon and Moab (Jeremiah 18-13), Babylon (Isaiah 21-22)
Jeremiah (32) and Edom (Isaiah 21, Jeremiah 13, Ezekiel 33, and 23) all came true as it was said.


Therefore, whenever the Bible predicts future events, its statements are accurate and reliable. Hundreds of prophecies
It is fulfilled, which leads us to believe what the Bible says about future events. The Bible
It has proven its truthfulness.




33

Can I trust the Bible?




The profound and profound influence of the Bible

Another sign of the Bible's reliability is its profound impact on societies and individuals. The Bible's power to change
Lives, wherever they went by the messengers of the Gospel, are fully evident. The following names are attributed to them:
Pay attention;


The Bible is called “the word of life” (Philippians 2:3-26).
His message, the good news (gospel), is called “the power of God for salvation” (Romans 2:26-3).
The Bible is called “the living and powerful word of God” (Hebrews 23:1-2).


Here I draw your attention to the fact that the level of the Bible's claim about itself is, in a way, a result of the quality and
Its unique capabilities.


Its profound impact on society (1)


Wherever the Bible has gone and been accepted by the people of that place, it has had a profound impact on their culture. Research
They will show impartially that the Bible plays a key and fundamental role in higher ethics, social transformation, and improvement.
Living conditions or better lives in different societies. In countries where slavery was common, this
It was the power of God's word that convinced people of their error and brought freedom to those who were in bondage.
Brought.


In countries where women were treated little better than animals, it was the preaching of the Gospel that gave them respect and freedom from
The oppression and misery they suffered brought. In areas where repression was severe and inhumane treatment was very common.
The advent of the Bible brought kindness, tolerance, and humane behavior. The problem of children, especially children with



34

Can I trust the Bible?


They have physical and mental disabilities and were sometimes shamefully mistreated because of their disabilities, to the point of
Much has improved due to the spread and acceptance of the gospel message.


Acceptance of the Bible has elevated people's spirits and aspirations. Imagine the world without the sublime vision of the Bible.
What would it look like if we took the Bible's teachings on honor and individual values from this world?
What remains of it? Take away the influence of its moral teachings and see what will happen to this world.


Take all the paintings inspired by Jesus Christ out of the art galleries; take them off the shelves.
Empty the libraries of works inspired by the Bible; empty the world of passionate sermons,
Empty the beautiful and inspiring church hymns; empty the face of cities of huge buildings, cathedrals, and even
Clean up the decrepit buildings of local churches that have historically been a place of peace, tranquility, and hope for the people; all
Take these away and set them aside, and see if anything of value remains? Milton without his poems, Michelangelo without his
2
Subject and Dante without dreams.


Take away from humanity the supreme moral law of the Bible. What a disaster for our society, our judiciary, and even our judges.
What disaster will befall the weak, the defenseless, the trampled, the crushed, the lonely, and the hopeless?




1
You may say to yourself that all of these are foreign poets and writers. Of course, your opinion is absolutely correct if we consider the role of
Let us ignore the Bible, the message of the Gospel, and the life of Jesus Christ in the poems and literary works of anonymous Iranian artists and thinkers. If the role
If we ignore the Bible and Christianity during the period of our country's transformation, if we find its traces in the ancient and classic poems of Davari, Iqbal, and Malik...
The poets Bahar, Sayyed Ashraf al-Din Qazvini (Nasim Shamal), Ali Akbar Dehkhoda, Iraj Mirza, Parvin Etesami, Dr. Hamidi Shirazi, and
Let's ignore others; if we find its traces in the neoclassical poems of Mehdi Akhavan Sales, Nader Naderpour, Hassan Shahbaz, Mehdi Zakai, Ahmad
Shamloo and Nader Ebrahimi; if we ignore its traces in the works of writers and translators such as Mohammad Ali Foroughi, Jalal Al-Ahmad, Ali
Shariati, Bastani Parisi, Ali Dashti, and Ali Asghar Hikmat, or even ignore its traces in fine arts such as sculpture.
Let us ignore painting and miniature making, architecture, building and decoration, as well as music. To finish this list would be truly
The patience of this educational period is not enough. However, the conclusion that can be drawn is that the rejection of Christianity is evident in all aspects of life and plays a significant role.
It is undeniable in the positive developments in our society.

35

Can I trust the Bible?


In such a situation, the only image that appears before our eyes is the period of punishment that is described to us in the Book of Revelation.
It has been warned. It is certain that the Bible has had a tremendous impact on our society, and this is an undeniable fact.
It is.


Its profound impact on individuals (2)


The Bible has not only had an impact on the church. The Word of God has also changed the lives of many individuals. Men and women
The hopeless, helpless, and even the wicked, who were on the verge of madness, found refuge and salvation by hearing and accepting the message of the Bible.
The Bible has given new hope to the sorrowful and the distressed; it has given absolute peace to the restless and troubled.
It has led lowly and insignificant peoples to greatness. It has raised morality to its highest level and brought liberation.
And it has brought extraordinary salvation to billions.


Let's look for a moment at Augustine, one of the most prominent scholars of the fourth and fifth centuries and also one of the Church Fathers.
Although he had a devout mother who constantly prayed for him, Augustine used his intelligence, talent, and energy
He had devoted himself to wrong and evil pursuits and certainly had no peace in life; as a result, he had intense periods and
He began his journey to seek the truth and test his soul. He continued his search, discouraged and sad, until
That he read these words in the Bible: "And let us walk decently, as in the day, not in revelry and drunkenness and debauchery and
"Fornication, strife, envying; but put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the lusts of the flesh" (Romans 22:22).
.)21


Augustine later wrote about his reaction to the above verses: "I did not go a word further and
It wasn't necessary. Because at the end of that sentence, suddenly and despite the mental conflict, peace reigned in my heart.
"All the darkness of doubt has been dispelled, it has disappeared." A person who until then was nothing more than a disillusioned alcoholic,
His life was so transformed that he eventually became the Bishop of Hippo in North Africa; he founded the first monastery in the region and
His unique writings influenced the thoughts of many Christians.



36

Can I trust the Bible?


Charles Haddon Spurgeon searched in vain for peace until he heard this verse from a local preacher: "O all ye
"Listen to me, all the ends of the earth, and be saved; for I am God, and there is no other." (Isaiah 33:13)


Martin Luther was freed from the burden of his sin by reading the following verse, and the spark that sparked the founding of the Protestant Reformation was ignited in his heart.
"Behold, the soul of the proud is not righteous in him: but the just shall live by his faith" (Habakkuk 1:3).


"Chuck Coulson," one of the criminals and founders of the Watergate scandal, was exposed through the candid testimony of one of his friends about
Bible education, has realized the truth, and is currently in charge of an institution whose goal is to bring the gospel to
He is even the author of a book called "Rebirth" which has had a profound impact on those in prison, the consequences of their actions and
They have their own crooked ways.


Hearing this verse; "Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest" (Matthew 22:38).
It transformed my own life.


There are hundreds of thousands of examples of these stories, belonging to people from all over the world who lived in different eras.
Although the time, place, and living conditions of these people were different, they all have one thing in common;
Their lives have been transformed by hearing the message and liberating power of the Bible.




37

Can I trust the Bible?




How did the Bible come to us?

What was the determining factor that determined which books belonged to the Bible? How did it come about that we have 23 books in the Old Testament and 37 in the New Testament today?
Do we have a book in the New Testament? These questions can be answered in the discussion of the "canon" of God's Word. The word canon means
"Method of measurement" or "standard". Of the many common religious writings, only 66 books
It is recognized as the inspired word of God. While some books are immediately recognized as
It took a relatively long time for other books to be approved as the inspired word of God. Although it was necessary to
It is a reminder that during this period, the canon of God's Word was determined by God, not man.


Old Testament (Old) 1


The writings of Moses and Joshua were immediately accepted as the inspired word of God (Exodus 2:31, Joshua 36:31, etc.).
The books were evaluated based on the following criteria:


A - The book was written by one of the prophets or approved leaders of the people of Israel.


Internal evidence of inspiration or authority, such that the reader is able to recognize the book's uniqueness in conveying the
It is a revelation from God.


All writings that contained obvious pedagogical and thematic errors were destroyed.
Those that were accepted by people of different societies were preferred.


The writings that were later declared by Jesus and other New Testament writers to be the word of God are also given credibility.
It was given.



38

Can I trust the Bible?


The twelve books known as the "Apocrypha" were not accepted as the inspired word of God for the following reasons:


A - They did not exist in any of the Hebrew centers.
None of them are mentioned in the New Testament. B-
They are not included in any of the initial lists.
Their content is very mythical and legendary. T-


New Testament (2)


The acceptance of the New Testament books was based on the test of the mission of their author. If the books were written by John, Peter, the other apostles,
Or their relatives, such as Mark and Luke, who had the authority of the apostles, were written, accepted as the word of God.
They would.


What we do know is that some false narratives about the life of Jesus Christ (Luke 2:1-2) and even
False and forged letters (2 Thessalonians 3:3) were prevalent among the people of that time, and for this reason, the identification
The authenticity of those documents was of great importance.


The Church Fathers fully supported the inspiration of the books in the New Testament canon, and in this regard, they carefully
The "Council of Hippo" in 232 AD and the "Council of Carthage" in 233 AD identified the suspects and eliminated them.
In 237 AD, the book that is now part of the New Testament was recognized as the revealed word of God.
They recognized.


Why do some Bible canons contain 66 books and some contain 73 books? (3)


The Word of God consists of only 66 books. These additional books, which are included in the printed Bibles of the Roman Catholic Church,
It was added to the canon of the Bible by a council called "Trent" in 1316. As it seems from some aspects,

39

Can I trust the Bible?


It turns out that the Catholics did this to combat the Protestant movement that was spreading at that time. They
By doing this, they intended to create an impassable gap between their supporters and the Protestants.




40

Can I trust the Bible?




Part Three




Great sayings of history's great men about the Bible
                                                   Sincerely


41

Can I trust the Bible?




Great sayings of history's great men about the Bible

Abraham Lincoln (Former President of the United States of America)


"I believe that the Bible is the best gift that God has given to man; all the goodness that
It comes to us in the Savior (Jesus Christ) and is revealed to us in this book."


Napoleon Bonaparte (Emperor of France)


"The Bible is not just a book, but a living being, powerfully triumphing over all its opponents."
"It will turn around."


Queen Victoria (ruled England in the late 18th century. During her time, her country achieved great progress).


"England owes its greatness to the Bible."


Immanuel Kant (Great German philosopher)


"The existence of the Bible is the greatest blessing to mankind. Any attempt to diminish its value is
"It is a crime against humanity."


Isaac Newton (English mathematician and physicist)


"The Bible is more authoritative and powerful than any historical book."



42

Can I trust the Bible?


Goethe (German author and writer)


"No matter how much a person progresses in culture and morality, he will not be able to abandon moral and cultural principles."
"The Christ who came in the Gospels will go beyond."


Henry Van Dyck (Famous European Painter)


"The Bible was born in the East, clothed in Eastern form and imagery, and traveled to all corners of the world."
He finds his friends. He speaks to the hearts of people in hundreds of languages. Children are happy and
They listen in amazement to its stories; the wise ponder its teachings to find it a guide to life.
Its warnings are terrifying to the wicked, but its message is for the brokenhearted and the repentant.
"It is as sweet and soothing as a mother's voice. Whoever has this treasure will never be poor or isolated."




43

Can I trust the Bible?




                                               Sincerely

Now that you have the necessary evidence for the authenticity and perfection of the Bible; now that you can rest assured and beyond any
Doubtless, look upon it as a revelation of God's will for mankind; when in fact it is God's power and providence to preserve
You have discovered the Word of God from any changes and distortions in content and teaching; now that you know that the Word of God is powerful and able to
Your life is changing for the better; you may be asking in your heart what God's will really is for humanity.
What does the Bible say about this? This is a question that people asked Jesus at that time. Jesus Christ answered
He said;


"They said to him, "What must we do to work the works of God?" Jesus answered them, "This is the work of God:
"You must believe in the one he sent." They said to him, "What sign do you perform that you may see it?"
We believe? What are you doing? Our fathers ate manna in the wilderness, as it is written, 'You came down from heaven.'
He gave them bread to eat. Jesus said to them, “Amen, amen, I say to you, Moses gave the bread from the
Heaven does not give you the true bread, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is that which
He comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. Then they said to him, "Lord, always give us this."
Jesus said to them, “I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me will never hunger, and whoever believes in me will never thirst.”
He who believes will never thirst...and this is the will of him who sent me, that everyone who sees the Son and believes in him
"He who has received the gift of life will have eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day." (John 6:23-38)
.)10




Grace and peace be with you from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.




44

