There is no god but
He is not,
Allah or Jesus?

A former Muslim, evidence of Islam and Christianity
examines
New York Times bestselling author
In Search of God, Finding Jesus

Nabil Qureshi
NABEEL QURESHI
Translator: Ali Kay (Translationgroup.co@gmail.com)
Edited and printed by: Afghan Hope Church
center30031400Website: (www.afghanchurch.org)

To contact us, send a message via the following email:
Email: kamibisjh@gmail.com













This book is dedicated to David Wood,
A great and great friend has been dedicated.










List

Foreword........................................................................................................................5
Prologue: Fatima's Dilemma................................................................................................8
Question 1: What is the difference between Islam and Christianity?................
Part 1: Law or Gospel? Two Different Solutions................................................................................17
Part 2: Monotheism or Trinity? Two Different Gods................................................................................38
Part 3: Muhammad or Jesus? Two Different Founders................................................................63
Part 4: Quran or Bible? Two Different Books...................................................................90
Part 5: Jihad or Crusades? Two Different Holy Wars................................................112
Question 2: Can we know whether Islam or Christianity is true?................
Part 6: Did Jesus Die on the Cross?................................................................................147
Part 7: Did Jesus Rise from the Dead?................................................................................171
Part 8: Did Jesus Claim to be God?................................................................................196
Part 9: Is Muhammad a Prophet of God?................
Part 10: Is the Quran the Word of God?................
Conclusion: Is the truth worth dying for?................


Foreword

Dear reader, I truly appreciate your time in reading this book. For me and millions of others like me, these pages are about much more than information. They are about the full engagement of heart and mind in the search for God and for real life. What I am sharing is a summary of fifteen years of research that has touched my heart and transformed my life. You may have already read my account of my journey from Islam to Christianity, Searching for God, Finding Jesus. That book is the heart of my story, detailing my relationships, emotions, and spiritual struggles in my search for God. No God but Him: Allah or Jesus? The heart of my story is an examination of religions and their claims. Throughout this book, I hope to make two general points in particular: that the differences between Islam and Christianity have major implications, and that the evidence of history strongly supports the claims of Christianity.
"God", "Allah" and "Yahweh"
Before we begin, the title of this book may be self-explanatory. Both Islam and Christianity are monotheistic, and believe that “there is no god but He,” but they differ fundamentally about who that god is: Allah or Jesus. There are at least four common uses of the Arabic word Allah. First and foremost, it is used to refer to the Muslim concept of Allah as described by Islam. This should come as no surprise. The second use is simply to mean God in a general sense. Thus, like the English word God, Allah does not need to refer to a specific religion. But the last two uses may be surprising: many Arabic-speaking Christians use Allah to mean the Christian Trinitarian God, and sometimes Christians use the term only to refer to the first person of the Trinity, the Father. To complicate matters further, Christians often do not clearly distinguish between the persons of the Triune God. So they can confuse their Muslim friends by saying something like, “Jesus is God,” and in the next breath, “Jesus is the Son of God.” While both statements are technically accurate doctrines, they only cause confusion by switching between uses of the word God. Their Muslim friends might respond to this with, “So is Jesus his own son?” And they have every right to ask for clarification. In this book, I will try to pay special attention to how I use these words. The term Allah will refer specifically to the Muslim concept of God, the term Jehovah will be used when I intend to refer specifically to all three persons of the Trinity, and the term God will be used when the occasion requires a general or intentional use. The terms Father, Son, and Spirit will be used to refer to specific persons of the Trinity. Finally, if this paragraph is difficult to understand, please spend more time in Part 2. I am truly glad you are reading this book.
The semantic challenge
One of the biggest problems in religious discussions is how we define our words. When some people say “Islam,” they basically mean the religion that a Muslim friend practices. But what a friend does can look very different from what an imam in Saudi Arabia does, so how do we decide which one most accurately represents Islam? There are so many branches and sects that claim to follow Islam, so how can we tell if they are really Muslim? Do we just assume that anyone who calls themselves Muslim represents Islam? If so, how can we argue with the claim that terrorist groups like ISIS do not represent Islam, when they clearly claim to be Muslim? This problem is harder than it sounds, but to prevent our terminology from becoming a moving target, we should at least narrow down a definition. I think a religious group should be defined through a historical lens. What gave this group its identity and distinguished it from other groups in its early tradition? In the case of Muslims, their defining act was to affirm that Muhammad was a prophet and to follow exclusively his teachings as divine revelations. In this book, we will call all those who do so Muslims. We will call Islam the teachings of Muhammad in that early period of identity formation. Using the same reasoning, Christians initially distinguished themselves from their Greco-Roman context by their belief in the God of the Hebrew Bible. However, they were distinct from other Jews because, because of the resurrection of Christ, they believed that Jesus himself was the God of the Hebrew Bible. Therefore, those who adhere to the monotheism of the Hebrew Bible and at the same time follow theology are, in my view, Christians. Christianity is then constituted by the teachings of Jesus as understood in that early period of identity formation.

Final thoughts and prayers
This book has been a dream of mine for about a decade. I have met thousands of people who are desperately seeking God and are caught between the debates between Islam and Christianity. I do not claim to be impartial, but I have participated in both sides of the debate and I know how frustrating it can be to try to navigate through all the arguments. My prayer is that this book will reach many who are in the throes of their search, and I pray that it will lead them to the altar of the One God. If that is you, know that I have prayed and wept for you, and this book was written for you. If you are reading this book more for learning than for a personal struggle, please pause right now and pray for those who are struggling between Islam and Christianity and are trying to know God. Pray that He will meet them and equip you to be a part of their journey.
Now I pray to Jehovah, the God of the universe, who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine. Lord, I commit this book to you for your recognition and glory. I ask you to save lives and transform this world. May many come to a saving knowledge of you and a relationship that will fill your heart and theirs with joy. In Jesus’ name I pray. Amen.








Prelude
Fatima's dilemma

“Repent! Or you have blasphemed!” Her brother was seething with rage, his words still echoing in Fatima’s mind. Repent! You have blasphemed! They faced the threat: the penalty for blasphemy was death. Had he really blasphemed? He hadn’t meant to. It had been a heated argument, and he had accidentally blurted out the words… But what now? How could this have happened? She was struggling to think clearly. Her life was in danger. Fatima, lifting her hands from her face, glanced at her computer. It was where she had secretly stored her most private thoughts and inner struggles, where she could discuss new ideas and share her opinions with sympathetic ears. Her computer was a gateway to her friends and her freedom. But today it had betrayed her. As a result, she had spent hours locked in her room, fearing for her life. His brother could return at any moment, and if he didn’t repent, it might be the end of the matter. He had to think. He had to think quickly and clearly. Despite the betrayal, his computer remained his only solution. As he had done so many times before, he returned to his laptop to help him. He started a post by logging into an Arabic forum.
Time: 5:15 AM, July 24, 2008
Author: Rania
She had operated under the name “Rania” for years, but the community knew her well. They knew that she was really Sarah Fatima Al-Mutairi, a twenty-six-year-old, a spirited young woman, a passionate teacher, a patriotic Saudi, and a recent convert to Christianity. Born in Qassim Province, Fatima’s family came from a prominent Bedouin tribe and raised her in accordance with their ancestral religion, Islam. Her mother, wishing to have a devout daughter, enrolled her in a Quranic school at a young age, and Fatima devoted herself intensely to her Islamic faith. She began to learn the Quran, carefully covered her hair with a hijab, and even fasted twice a week. She began to outdo her family in religious zeal, avoiding television and secular music, and eventually abandoning her friends because of her passion. Fatima’s mother became concerned. She wanted a loyal daughter, not a fanatic. This was not the Islam he knew. Regretting his decision, he pulled Fatima out of the Quran school and enrolled her in the government system. During the following months, Fatima’s life became normal, yet she was passionate about her religion. She participated in online debates and defended the Prophet and her beloved religion against their attacks. During these discussions, she carefully studied Islamic history and theology, confident that her faith would stand up to scrutiny. But during these debates, she realized, amidst grief and despair, that she could no longer follow Islam. She stopped eating for several days, fell into depression, and became an atheist. But something told her that this was not the answer. She began her search for God anew, and this time she asked for his help. It was then that she came across the Gospels, especially the Gospel of Matthew. They captivated her. She read it four times, and was most influenced by the Sermon on the Mount. After months of deliberation, she accepted its message. The Christian community she was associated with advised her to keep her new faith a secret, as leaving Islam in Saudi Arabia was punishable by death. This was difficult for Fatima, passionate and outspoken, but she hid her conversion from everyone, kept her private thoughts on her computer, and communicated with her Christian community only online. She now returned to this online community in her moment of critical despair. After some thought, she titled her post and continued:
Time: 5:15 AM, July 24, 2008
Author: Rania
Title: I'm in big trouble.
Body: Peace of our Lord and God and Jesus Christ. I am in great trouble. My family started to doubt me because of the religious argument this evening with my mother and brother...
Her brother. Fatima didn’t need to explain to the group how dangerous it could be to argue with him. Fatima’s brother had a similar start in the same family, but his story unfolded differently. His passion for Islam had grown from a child and had become fanatical. He eventually joined the “Encouraging Righteousness and Forbidding Evil” group, Saudi Arabia’s religious police force dedicated to enforcing a strict version of Islam on its citizens. Although many Muslims oppose the group in particular and Saudi Arabia’s dogmatic version of Islam in general, religious rigor attracts zealous young men like Fatima’s brother.
Fatima’s fingers raced over the keyboard, words now pouring out of her, recounting the harrowing events of the evening. She explained that in a moment of weakness, she had complained about her lack of religious freedom in Islam. When her family pressed her to explain herself, she said, “The path of Christ is purer than the path of the Prophet, and there is a difference between them!” Her brother became furious and threatened, “Repent! Or you have committed blasphemy!” Even as Fatima tried to apologize, he entered her room, grabbed her computer, and began searching through her files. There, he found Fatima’s diary, her Christian confessions, and even a picture of the cross. Her darkest suspicions were confirmed. A fierce malice welled up in her eyes. She left him, giving him four hours to see what he had done. Repent! You have committed blasphemy! When he reached the end of his post, he made a simple request: His gaze frightened me. I don't trust him. Please pray for me." Four hours had passed. His brother would return any moment. He had to choose: would he repent and accept Islam, or would he remain steadfast in his Christian faith, at the cost of his life? Which is Islam or Christianity?
Islam or Christianity?
For Fatima, absolutely everything depended on this question. Regardless of the strength of her convictions, when faced with the threat of death, she probably thought for a moment about how certain she really was: Is the way of Christ really any different from the way of the Prophet? Can we really be sure that this or that religion is true? Yet, is the truth worth dying for? Millions of people face Fatima’s dilemma every year: whether to follow Islam or Christianity, to worship Allah or Jesus. Like Fatima, unless the seeker lives in a nominal or secular environment, the stakes are high: it can cost the seeker family, friends, career, and potentially life. For such seekers, it is not simply a matter of believing what seems right. They must be sure that it is worth the sacrifice. For me, it has been a decade since I decided to leave Islam, and the consequences of my decision haunt me every day. I knew long before I converted that this would happen, but I also knew that I was certain. I was certain that Islam and Christianity were not just two paths leading to the same God, but two very different paths with very different paths. I was certain that I had a very good historical reason to believe in the Gospel. I was certain that although I loved Islam, I could not ignore the problems that had crippled its foundations. But most of all, I was certain that following the One God was worth all the trials and all the suffering. I had to follow the evidence and the truth, no matter the cost. I left my religion of twenty-two years and became a follower of Jesus in 2005. In 2009, after graduating from medical school, I decided to leave medicine to share what I had learned about the Gospel, the message of Christianity. I sincerely believe that this message has the power to transform hearts and change the world. The God he proclaims is like no other, and it is an incomprehensible honor to be a part of his story and to introduce people to him. In sharing this message, I often encounter two types of people: Christians who enjoy criticizing Islam, and Muslims who want to argue but don’t want to learn. I am not writing this book for either of them. I am writing it for people who—like Fatima and I—need answers to these questions:
What are the differences between Islam and Christianity?
Can we be sure that Christianity or Islam is true?
Is the truth worth dying for?
It took me four years to answer these questions, and they are so important to me that I have been studying them for another decade. This book is my short answer. After sharing my findings, we will see how Fatima answered the same questions and discover the outcome of her story.





First question
Islam and Christianity
What is the difference between them?







In August 2005, I came to the most painful realization of my life: I no longer believed in Islam. I had no choice, and I could no longer delay the possibility I had been struggling with for years. I had been raised to love Islam as a child. I enjoyed memorizing chapters of the Quran and reciting them in daily prayers. I looked forward to fasting with my family during Ramadan each year, excited for the early morning prayers and the evening congregational prayers. I looked forward to celebrating each Eid with my extended family. My entire life revolved around Islam, and I was proud of my Muslim heritage. Ironically, it was my trust in Islam that brought my faith to a breaking point. Shortly after starting my undergraduate studies in 2001, I challenged a Christian friend of mine at my university to consider the truth of Islam. Using arguments I had heard in mosques and from Muslim authorities, I argued that Islamic teachings were certifiably true, while Christian teachings were certifiably false. His answers led to an investigation that ultimately lasted four years. What I discovered over and over again was that Christian teachings held up whenever they could be tested historically. The arguments against Christianity, which I had relied on all my life, were flawed and weak, and Christianity was strong. But it was something that happened later that shook my world and my heart to the core. My friend used the same critical standards I had used against Christian teachings to challenge Islam. Under the weight of this constant scrutiny, the foundations of Islam crumbled. In the summer of 2005, I realized that I no longer believed in the Shahadah, the Muslim declaration that “There is no god but Allah and Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah.” The declaration of faith is the minimum requirement for a Muslim, and I simply did not believe it. I desperately wanted to believe it, because I found everything I loved in Islam: my family, my friends, my culture, my traditions, my heritage. Leaving Islam would have meant sacrificing everything I knew and destroying the people I loved most. At the same time, Christianity held no appeal for me. My family was not Christian, I had only three Christian friends, my only experiences visiting churches had left a bad taste in my mouth, I thought Christmas and Easter were pagan traditions, and I really didn’t know how I could fit in as a Christian. I didn’t want to believe in Christianity at all. But I realized it was too late: I already believed Christianity was true, and I couldn’t be a Muslim because I couldn’t honestly declare my faith. The only question that remained was whether I would take the final step and move forward in faith. It is one thing to find compelling evidence, and quite another to act on that evidence in faith. Especially when the cost is practically unbearable. On August 24, 2005, when I could resist no longer, I bowed my knee to Jesus and declared my faith in him. Shortly thereafter, my family was torn apart, and the next year of my life was by far the most bitter I have ever endured. I am now an outsider to both my family and all my friends in the Muslim community. It was only a few weeks ago that I received my first death threat. Ten years later, I still receive occasional death threats, I have never regained my old friends, and my family has never been the same. I feel the painful consequences of my decision every day. So when I hear people say that Islam and Christianity are essentially the same, I have to try to suppress my incredulous response. Are Islam and Christianity the same? My parents certainly don’t think so, nor do any of the dozens of friends I lost. This stereotype is a slap in the face to the hundreds of thousands of Muslims who have left Islam for Christianity and vice versa. Not only are these religions different, but the differences have far greater implications than I realized when I converted. I knew that the historical teachings of the two religions were different, but teachings don’t exist in a vacuum. They work together to influence our view of the world, which in turn changes our personalities.
For example, the Muslim concept of God, whom we call Allah, has different characteristics from the Christian concept of God. The most obvious of these, of course, is that God is not a Trinity, while the one Christian God exists in three persons: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. The concept of the personality of God is so different between Islam and Christianity that the basic premise of Christianity, "Jesus is God," registers as blasphemy to the average Muslim. Although both religions teach that there is no God but one, simply considering the personality of God shows that they differ significantly about his character.
And what we think God is like has a tremendous impact on how we see the world he has created. Why did God create humans: to share intimacy with them or to test them? What does he think about people: are they his servants or his children? How does he want us to live: to focus on love or to focus on the law? What does he tell us about life after death: to anxiously anticipate an unknown judgment or to joyfully trust in his grace? The Islamic view of God and the Christian view accept different answers, and how we answer these questions changes the way we view ourselves, others, and the world around us. Both Muslims and Christians believe that there is only one God, but is he Allah or Jesus? I can tell you from personal experience and in all sincerity: how we answer this question has the power to change us.















Part 1
Law or Gospel?
Two different solutions









Chapter 1
A way to life

As a young student, I was proud to be the voice of Islam in the large group of religious views at my university. The diversity of thought was beautiful because there was an environment where critical thinking was encouraged. As we presented our ideas and perspectives, others were free to both challenge our views and gain insights from them, and we were all sharpened by critical engagement. Tolerance means always accepting people, without accepting their ideas.
So, in the midst of challenging a colleague’s cherished beliefs, we also became the best of friends. David Wood was on my debate and forensics team at Old Dominion University, and when I saw him reading the Bible, I didn’t hesitate to question its reliability and corruption. We connected instantly because of our mutual passion for God and truth, even though our views were wildly opposed. We disagreed so much on fundamental issues that we often signed up for classes together so we could sit in the back of lecture halls and debate.
But as the circle widened and other perspectives entered the discussion, a surprising trend emerged. The first time this happened was when an agnostic teammate named Marie (someone who believes that the human mind is incapable of knowing for sure whether God exists or whether there is anything beyond material phenomena) overheard one of our discussions and joined in. David and I found ourselves agreeing with each other despite her views. The second time this happened was when a Buddhist friend named Zach presented his reasons for being Buddhist, and David and I both disagreed with him for similar reasons. Whenever we met people from other worldviews, the discussions highlighted the similarities between Islam and Christianity.
There is really no doubt that Islam and Christianity are close to each other in the broader spectrum of religion. They are both monotheistic, the two largest religious communities in the world, and they have many similarities. Each teaches the doctrine of an eternal, powerful, and wise God who rules the universe. It is God who created man from a male and a female, but people turned away from Him. Each teaches that there will be a Day of Judgment and a final judgment. Before that, it is very important for us to seek God and follow Him.
But the similarities between Islam and Christianity run deeper, beyond the trappings of monotheism: Both claim Abrahamic lineage. Both teach that God sent human prophets and angels to guide people to Him. Both teach that God inspired scriptures to guide mankind. Both teach that Satan is a deceiver who misleads the unwary. And both teach that believers should selflessly care for one another and proclaim the truth to nonbelievers. Perhaps the most striking common feature is their reverence for Jesus. Both Islam and Christianity teach that Jesus was born of a virgin and that he was the most miraculous man who ever lived. Both the Bible and the Quran teach that Jesus healed lepers, restored sight to the blind, and even raised the dead. In fact, both books teach that Jesus is the Messiah, and Muslims, like Christians, await his return. There is no doubt, then, that there is much in common between Islam and Christianity. It would be remiss to ignore this, especially given the range of worldviews that range from atheistic to pantheistic, as David and I witnessed at our university.
The Way of Life: A Law or a Person?
But the many similarities do not mean that the differences are not significant. Humans and chimpanzees share 95 percent of their DNA, but the remaining 5 percent is incredibly important! The same is true of Islam and Christianity. There is a lot of shared DNA, but the two are quite different phenotypically. Where the difference matters most is in the ultimate message of each religion. In Islam, the way to heaven is the Sharia, the laws that must be followed to please and please Allah. Sharia is literally translated as “the way.” According to the Christian message, the Gospel is the way to eternal life, Jesus. He said, “I am the way, the truth, and the life; no one comes to the Father except through me” (John 14:6). In Islam, the Sharia is the way, and in Christianity, Jesus is the way. How is it that the way to life in one religion is the Sharia, while in another it is a person? To understand, we must compare the law and the Bible.
Season 2
Comparing the Law and the Bible

Islamic worldview
The word Islam means “submission,” and the explicit message of Islam is precisely this: all human beings must submit to the absolute will of God. God created mankind with the express purpose of worshipping Him in the creation of the universe (Quran 51:56). To guide humanity, God sent prophets to all people to bring them out of ignorance (Quran 4:163-165). It is important to note here that the concept of prophet in Islam is not the same as it is in the Bible. Prophets in Islam have a higher status than all other people because they are men chosen by God to lead mankind. The Quran uses the term to mean a divinely appointed leader, not necessarily someone who prophesies.
Adam is considered the first prophet, but the Quran also mentions Noah, Abraham, Ishmael, Isaac, Jacob, Job, Moses, Jonah, Aaron, Solomon, David, and of course, Jesus (e.g., Quran 4:163). Since these individuals all submitted to Allah, they became submissive (i.e., Islam). Therefore, they are considered to be people who have submitted (i.e., Muslims). All those who followed these prophets in submitting to Allah are also considered Muslims, even if they were born in the ages before Muhammad. Allah revealed His guidance to each prophet according to the people's needs and tolerance. For example, Moses' people were to rebel against Pharaoh, so Allah revealed "an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth."
But Jesus’ people were to be peaceful, so Allah taught them to “turn their faces.” Both Moses and Jesus, as well as other prophets, were given scripture. Angels conveyed Allah’s revelation to them, and the revelation was written down in the form of the Torah, the Gospel, and other books (e.g., Quran 5:46).
Unfortunately, people did not sincerely follow the prophets that Allah sent to them. So Allah, in His mercy, sent Muhammad and gave him the Quran. Thus, Allah gave mankind the final and perfect religion (Quran 5. 3). Thus, Islam is the culmination of Judaism, Christianity, and other world religions that began in line with Islamic teachings. All those who continue to follow these religions after the advent of Muhammad are either misguided or rebellious, and no religion will be accepted from them on the Day of Judgment except Islam (Quran 3. 81-85).
It is on the Day of Judgment that man finds his main motivation for following Islam. The Quran emphasizes that on that day, all people will be held accountable before Allah for their sins (Quran 6:164; 17:15; 35:18; 39:7; 53:38). This is a deeply rooted understanding in the Muslim psyche: although Allah has mercy and forgives us of our sins, no one else can intercede. Muslims should live as good a life as they can to come close to Paradise and hope for Allah’s merciful judgment to ensure their salvation.
The Islamic Solution: Sharia
But Islam teaches that the fundamental problem of humanity is ignorance and that man needs guidance to live a good life. When people learn what to believe and how to live, they will gain the pleasure of Allah.
As for correct belief, the emphasis is on the Islamic understanding of monotheism: Allah is not the Father, nor is Allah the Son (Quran 112). He is an absolute unity, a monad. The other components of belief have already been mentioned: belief in the prophets, belief in the divine books, belief in angels and the unseen, belief in the Day of Judgment, and belief in the predestination of Allah. Together, these are called the six articles of faith. There are many more Islamic beliefs, but this is the core. Correct action in Islam is taught through Islamic law, known as the “path to water.” Especially for desert people, this concept is powerful: following the law is the way of life.
Sharia governs virtually every aspect of a devout Muslim’s life, from the foods they should eat, the proper forms of currency, to the exact words they should recite during prayer. Of all Islamic practices, five are most important: declaring the Islamic motto, the Shahadah: “There is no god but Allah and Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah.” Performing the five daily prayers; fasting during the month of Ramadan; giving alms; and making the pilgrimage to Mecca. Together, these are called the Five Pillars of Islam.
The creed and the Sharia are ultimately rooted in the life and teachings of Muhammad. He is the epitome of Islam, and as such, Muslims are expected to follow him as the perfect model. His actions and sayings in life are recorded in a vast body of literature, collectively called the Hadith literature. The Hadith are so important that they constitute the second level of Sharia after the Quran. Given the breadth of the teachings of the Quran and the extraordinarily vast scope of the Hadith literature, it is the task of scholars to identify the Sharia.
Muslim jurists study extensive hadiths and legal traditions before issuing a formal judgment, called a fatwa. These individuals are technically called jurists, but are often referred to as a Muslim leader, the Imam. Collectively, the consensus of these scholars is called ijma and is known as the third major component of Sharia.
Finally, we are at a place where we understand the message of Islam. Sharia is more than Islamic law. It is the answer to human ignorance and if followed, a peaceful life with Allah and His abundant blessings will be achieved. Sharia is derived from the Quran, which is exemplified in the life of Muhammad and explained by the Imams. On the Last Day, if we obey and do good, Allah will have mercy on us and we will enter Paradise where we will be rewarded eternally.
So in summary, when it comes to salvation in Islam, Sharia is literally "the way" and submission to the will of Allah is the primary expression of our worship.
Christian worldview
At the beginning of the Christian worldview is the one God, Jehovah. He exists as three persons who love each other perfectly. Therefore, the one God is, in essence, love. Out of this love, God created mankind in His own image so that God would love man and man would love God. It is important to note that this concept of love is often misunderstood by Muslims because of the different ways the word love is used in English. The specific concept of love we are discussing is often called agape love (unconditional love). This is not the love we imagine in a romantic relationship. It does not mean much emotion at all. The Bible gives a beautiful description of this love in 1 Corinthians 13, but essentially love is: self-sacrifice that makes others happy. This is who God, the Almighty and yet the most humble, is, the center of the universe and yet the most self-sacrificing. He created man to enjoy us and we in him with self-sacrificing love.
But for this love to be valuable, it must be voluntary, so Jehovah gave man the choice to love him or to reject him. When man disobeys God, he rejects God. By rejecting the source of life, we bring death upon ourselves. This time he repeats: the result of sin is death because it is the rejection of the source of life.
That is why, in the Christian worldview, sin against God is more than doing something wrong. It is rebellion against the universal providence. It is the most destructive force in the universe, the ultimate root of every aching heart, every broken family, every futile war, every heinous genocide. Sin spreads like a malignant cancer through generations, destroying civilizations like a plague. The effect of sin is catastrophic. Sin, like a hammer hitting a mirror, shatters the image in which man is made. When Adam sinned, the image of God in man was irreparably shattered.
This is the Christian worldview: Sin has ruined our souls and the entire world. There is no way to remove our sin. We cannot simply do a few good deeds to save our souls. There is nothing on earth that we can do. It takes a miracle, an act of God, to restore us and save this world.
The Christian Solution: The Gospel
But in the Christian message, there is good news. In Greek, the word for good news is euangelion, which is translated into English as “gospel.” And the good news is this: Even though we can’t reach God, because of his great love, God has come to us and made a way for us. God himself has paid the penalty for our sins and will restore our lives forever. All we have to do is repent of our rebellion, believe in what he has done, and follow him.
To pay for our sins, God—specifically the second person of the Trinity—entered the world. God took on human nature without changing His divine nature. He was born as a human, but not of the broken lineage of Adam. He was born unbroken, as humanity was meant to be, as we will ultimately be when we are miraculously restored.
He was given the name Jesus, which means “God saves.” Given his human nature, he grew up as a human, ate as a human, suffered alongside humans, and ultimately died as a human.
In all of this He never sinned, so He was able to bear our sins. He lived the life we should have lived so He could die the death we deserve. He took on the sins of the world by dying on our behalf so that whoever believes in Him and accepts what He has done will have eternal life.
From the perspective of a human being watching Jesus, it might seem like another man dying again. So to prove to the world that his death was not just another death, but a death that would give life to the world, and to prove that he was indeed the God he claimed to be, he rose from the dead. On the one hand, it was a sign to all who doubted that Jesus really had supernatural powers and deserved to be heard. On the other hand, it was a symbol to those who believed in him that death had been defeated. Jesus had conquered it for us.
Those of us who want to accept God’s sacrifice on His behalf must repent of our sins and give ourselves over to following Him. As we do, God—specifically the third person of the Trinity—makes our hearts a holy temple and lives within us. He transforms us from the inside out. In other words, as we follow Jesus, we become more like Him, the invincible human being, and the Holy Spirit gradually begins the miraculous work of restoring our irreparable souls. Like Jesus, we are filled with self-sacrificing love and begin to live for others instead of ourselves, as God lived for us. Those who progress in the path of becoming like Jesus even reflect Him in their willingness to die for others, as Jesus was willing to die for us. They become more like God: they enjoy self-sacrifice for others.
Finally, we are in a place where we understand the message of Christianity: the fundamental problem of humanity is sin, and we are powerless to save ourselves. The good news is that God loves us and has made a way for us by paying the penalty for our sin on the cross. Jesus proved by rising from the dead that He has the power to save. As we repent and follow Jesus, we exercise faith in Him and His salvation, and God begins the work of transformation in us. As we follow Jesus, the Holy Spirit makes us more like Him and sends us out into the world to love humanity with God’s self-sacrificing love. We can even lay down our lives for others, as Jesus set the example for us. Our final restoration will come when we are made new and unbroken, to live with Him and love Him forever.
So when it comes to salvation in Christianity, Jesus is literally “the way,” and our love for God is the primary expression of our worship.











Chapter 3
Questioning grace

In 2013, I was given the honor of joining Ravi Zacharias International, a global team of Christian thinkers and evangelists. One of my first partnerships in Hong Kong was with a charismatic Egyptian Muslim who had originally traveled to the East to pursue his dream of becoming a famous musician, but eventually became disillusioned with the music industry and found solace in Islam. Since then, he has become a “dawati,” a Muslim dedicated to spreading Islam.
He was very warm and hospitable, and although our discussion was passionate, his tone was encouraging and constructive. At the end of the conversation we hugged each other and encouraged the audience to ask us questions before leaving. Shortly after, two children approached me, a girl and a boy of about twelve and ten years old, apparently sent by their mother. When they asked me their question, I couldn’t help but smile, because I remembered that at their age I had asked the same question to Christians, at the insistence of my parents: “If God would just forgive all Christians and none of them would go to hell, why should every Christian do good when he can sin all he wants?” Now that we have examined the differences between the message of Islam and the Christian message, this question should not come as a surprise.
In Islam, the reward for following the law is heaven and the deterrent for disobedience is hell. Why would someone make difficult moral decisions if they were promised a reward without considering the reward? Since the solution to the human problem in Islam is a law, the idea of ​​the gospel of a heart transformed by God is alien to many Muslims—as it was to these children. The disconnect between the law and the gospel also leads to other common questions that Muslims ask Christians.
The doctrine of original sin
Since Islam teaches that each individual must bear his own sin, Muslims often question the doctrine of original sin: What does Adam have to do with our standing before God? Fortunately, there is a bridge of understanding between Muslims and Christians here, since Muslims believe that Adam was cast out of the garden when he sinned. It is also useful to note that there are different views on original sin in Christian thought.
The perspective I found most helpful when I was still a Muslim is that when it all comes down to it, Muslims and Christians don't really disagree much here.
According to this view, the Bible teaches that no man is responsible for the sin of his father (Deuteronomy 24:16; Ezekiel 18:20), which means that people are not guilty of Adam’s sin itself. When we are judged, we are judged only for our sins, but Adam’s sin began somewhere. Recalling the Christian view of the destructiveness of sin, when Adam sinned, it was as if his soul had been ground to powder. Although Adam was created in the image of God, it was this broken and irreparable image of God that Adam’s children inherited (Genesis 5:3). Since mankind inherited the broken image from Adam, all humans are broken and prone to sin. They are not judged because of his sin, but because of his sin, we, his children, are all born broken. Because of his sin, we all ultimately sin.
However, regardless of our view of original sin, Christians believe that everyone sins and that their own sin is sufficient to bring God's judgment upon them. Muslims generally agree with this.
God's justice: death for the smallest sin and mercy for the greatest sinner?
According to the basic tenets of Islam, Allah weighs good deeds against bad deeds when He judges us. Muslims generally believe that someone who has committed very little sin has little to worry about. For this reason, they often ask why God demands justice for even the smallest sin. As Dawati in Hong Kong pointedly asked me during our debate, “Is it just for a judge to sentence you to death for not crossing the crosswalk?”
It was a fair question, and when I asked the same question as a Muslim, I found that Christians often did not give satisfactory answers.
Usually, they point me to Romans 6:23, which teaches that “the wages of sin is death.” My response will always be honest: “That’s another reason not to trust the Bible. It’s nonsense. Why do we give the death penalty for even the smallest sin?” I wasn’t surprised when an “invite” raised the same challenge in our debate.
I wasn’t surprised when he asked the question: “How can God be just if he’s willing to forgive serial killers and genocidal dictators? You’re telling me that Hitler could have gone to heaven if he had become a Christian?” It’s an emotional question, but one that deserves a full answer.
To fully understand, we need to remember two things: the nature of sin and the nature of God. Remember that according to Christian teaching, sin is not just doing the wrong thing. It is a rebellion against God, the source of life. Death is not a punishment for our actions so much as a consequence. God does not execute us for not crossing the crosswalk. We get run over by a truck while crossing.
Regarding God’s nature, we must remember that He loves us completely. Just as a father loves his child regardless of what the child does, our heavenly Father loves us regardless of what we have done. For example, a father loves his son even if he is a thief.
He may even turn his son over to the authorities to face the consequences of his crime, but this is out of love and a desire for ultimate rehabilitation. In the same way, God loves his children despite their sins, although he allows them to suffer the consequences of their actions on earth so that they can repent and change their ways. In all of this he always loves us, because he is our perfect Father and he is love.
But there are at least two sides to such love, and they often appear in apparent opposition to each other: mercy and justice. A father can love his criminal child with kindness, but a father must also love his victim child with justice. Mercy and justice both express God’s absolute love. This creates a dilemma: Where does God draw the line between the two? If he desires justice, where is mercy for the criminal? If he does, where is justice for the victim? He cannot arbitrarily draw that line because he is God. So where does God draw the line?
To magnify this dilemma, God is also absolute. To illustrate, it is useful to imagine a human judge who demands justice for every crime and never forgives any. Although he is not at all merciful, he would be a very just judge. Now, if God did not punish all sins, he would be less than a just human judge. Can we really believe that God’s sense of justice could be potentially less than a human’s? Of course not. Similarly, if we could imagine a human judge who forgave every crime, he would be a very merciful judge, but not at all. If God did not forgive every sin, he would be less merciful than that human judge. But God is the most merciful; his mercy cannot be destroyed by man. What is the way out of this dilemma? Where does God draw the line between mercy and justice?
This is the infinite, intelligent love of God: He does not draw the line. He has mercy on everyone who has ever sinned, while at the same time demanding justice for every sin that has ever been committed. He does this by offering the consequences of our sins. The consequence of our sins is death, and God is willing to die for all of His children.
How could Jesus die for the sins of mankind?
This is perhaps one of the most common questions raised in Muslim-Christian dialogue, and it is important to remember the Muslim motivation for asking this question: Islam emphasizes that each individual is responsible for his own sins. No human being can intercede for another.
But here is another example where agreement is close: Christians, like Muslims, believe that no human being is simply in a position to bear the sins of another. To understand this, I must remember that Christians believe that Jesus is God. Muslims believe that God is able to forgive sins, and this is exactly what Christians teach through the Bible: it is God who forgives human sins. His death on the cross is his act of mercy for our sins. Rather than just forgiving us on Judgment Day in the distant future, he paid the price for our sins at a very real point in time and place: on the cross in the first century.
Another question is closely related: “Is it only for God to pass on sins? No one can bear another’s burden, because that would be unjust.” Here it is useful to note two points. First, people voluntarily carry the burdens of others all the time, and this is perfectly just. For example, when young people want to get a loan from a bank but have no credit, they have to find a guarantor, usually a mother or father, to guarantee them. If they then fail to repay the loan, the burden falls on the parent who guaranteed them. Similarly, the Bible teaches that God, a good and loving Father, has guaranteed us. When we are guilty in the judgment, our debt belongs to God, who has paid it.
Another point that is useful to point out is that the Quran does not actually teach that no one can bear the sins of another.
Looking carefully at the relevant verses of the Quran, all five of them teach that “no bearer of burdens shall bear another’s burden.” It is not that no one can bear the sins of another, but rather that anyone who is already a sinner is not in a position to bear the sins of another. Since Muslims believe that Jesus bore no sins, it must be consistent with Islamic theology with Jesus bearing the burdens of another.
What reason do Christians have for doing good works?
When the young siblings in Hong Kong asked me their question, I briefly considered the ways I could answer. I sat down next to them, nodded to their mother, and asked them a question in return: “Do you love your mother?” A little taken aback, they replied firmly, “Of course!” With a smile, I asked them a simple question: “When she asks you to do something, like clean your room, what do you think would make her happier: if you clean your room because you love her or if you clean your room because you were afraid she would punish you?” The sister answered without hesitation, “Because we love her.” And as the words left her lips, the realization dawned on her face: obedience under threat is hardly obedience, but coercion. Christian obedience, without threat and rooted in love, is what God truly wants.
I began to explain to her and her brother that when we respond to the gospel and live as children of God, our Father changes our hearts and compels us to obey out of love. For the next few minutes, they asked me questions seriously, left completely unfinished when their mother called them over.
Chapter 4
Diagnosis and release

In the spring of 2009, when I was graduating from medical school, I volunteered with a humanitarian organization called Doctors for Peace. They were doing great work all over the world, and the project I chose to help with was to educate young mothers in the slums of Santo Domingo. The Rio Ozama runs through the Dominican capital, and its low-lying banks are home to thousands of metal shacks. Every year, rains cause the Ozama to swell into crudely constructed shacks, forcing residents to flee for weeks as the floodwaters recede, only to return to homes infested with disease. At the time, infant mortality rates were high, as young mothers often couldn’t afford quality health care and had to watch their babies die. Doctors for Peace stepped in to equip key women in these neighborhoods, whom we called resource mothers, to educate mothers of newborns about disease prevention and hygiene. Thanks to their work, rates of neonatal morbidity and mortality dropped dramatically.
When I arrived, I realized that young mothers were dealing with a life-threatening illness that was undiagnosed: depression. In their cultural circles, depression carried the stigma of an imaginary illness of unstable women. For my project, I trained resource mothers to recognize major depression and postpartum depression in the young mothers they trained. Many resource mothers, especially those who suffered from depression themselves, were surprised to learn that it was a real illness. They had always been told that depression was only in their heads and that they should just “be happy.” But no matter how hard they tried, the depression was real.
Clinical depression is a widespread illness and can be devastating if left undiagnosed. These women had tried everything, but they never found relief because they didn't know what the real problem was. When I finally talked to them about the reality of depression, many of them shed tears, relieved to hear that their illness was real and that there was help available.
I share this story because I believe the spiritual realm shares this characteristic with the physical body: if we misidentify what ails us, the cure will not work and we will continue to suffer. Islam recognizes the world as ignorance and offers the cure of Sharia, a law that must be followed. Christianity recognizes the world as broken and offers the cure of God himself, a relationship with him that leads to a transformation of the heart.
What really ails humanity, and is there a cure? From my perspective, the Bible resonates with truth: People are broken in their hearts and souls, and no matter how educated or self-centered we are, following the law doesn’t seem to be enough to fix the problem. The problem with humanity goes deeper than what we do. It’s embedded in who we are. Having spent time with depressed and vulnerable people, such as those whose lives have been affected by various addictions, I don’t think ignorance is their problem. It’s brokenness. Having seen families torn apart by abuse or anger, I know that the answer seems to lie not in knowledge or following the law, but in transformed hearts. This brings me to my second observation: Humanity seems incapable of saving itself. We perpetuate cycles of destruction in our natural selves.
Our hearts are broken, so we break other hearts. We were abused, so we take advantage in return. Our families were torn apart, so we leave broken families in our wake. When our loved ones are killed, we kill for revenge. This is the way of humanity, and we need an afterlife solution to break these cycles. We need God to save us. The Bible is that radical solution. It teaches us that God offers us that afterlife grace and forgives us regardless of our sins. His love is great: “For I am convinced that neither death nor life, nor angels nor principalities nor powers, nor things present nor things to come, nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.” (Romans 8:38-39). He loves us and we are forgiven. Our souls can rest in the loving Father and His all-encompassing grace.
When we realize the depravity of our sins and the depth of our rebellion against God, it surpasses the capacity of the mind to comprehend this grace. What can we do to deserve such forgiveness? Nothing! He immerses us in His infinite love and absolute mercy, even though we cannot earn it.
It is in that great flood of grace that our hearts release their poison. When we have been forgiven so much, how can we hold our fellow men accountable for so little? In His love our hearts are renewed. We no longer hold grudges, we no longer seek revenge. With the revival He has wrought in us, we want to lift up the abused and restore the broken. He transforms our hearts, and we in turn set out to transform the world around us.
And that brings me to my final point: The gospel is all about God and what God has done. God brings life to the world, and when we rebel, God saves us. When we sin against God, God pays the penalty for our sins. When we sin against each other, God offers restoring grace. The message is all about Him, not about what we can do or have achieved for ourselves.
This not only frees us from the anxiety of our salvation, but it also frees us from the pride that comes from successfully following the law and assuming that we have earned our salvation.
Because we are so free from anxiety and pride, we are free to live for others.
So the Gospel correctly identifies the problem of humanity, which is our own brokenness. Through his supernatural and heavenly grace, he transforms us and frees us from cycles of destruction. Yet he is at the center, separating us from pride and anxiety, helping us to focus on others rather than ourselves. The Gospel is not just an answer that works. It is the only answer that will work.









Part 2
Monotheism or Trinity?
Two different gods





Chapter 5
Islamic Inquisition

Although many challenge the notion that Islam spread by the sword, there is no doubt that the sword figured prominently in the early history of Islam. It was with the sword that Muslim armies swept across North Africa and conquered Iran soon after Muhammad’s death. The caliphs, Muhammad’s successors, soon faced high-profile assassinations: Umar, the second caliph of Islam, was killed by Iranian vengeful forces. Uthman, the third caliph of Islam, was besieged and massacred by Muslim rebels. Muhammad’s cousin Ali, the fourth caliph, was also assassinated by his opponents, but not before he marched on the army of Aisha, Muhammad’s young bride. This was the first Islamic civil war, often called the First Fitna, and on that day, ten thousand Muslims killed each other on the battlefield. With their bloodshed, the first seeds of Shia-Sunni discord were sown. The sword was drawn from its sheath in the first seals of Islam.
After the era of Muhammad's companions, the Umayyad Caliphate ruled the Islamic empire for a brief ninety years until, through rebellion and open warfare, the Abbasid Muslims took over and established a dynasty that lasted 750 years. The reign of the seventh Abbasid caliph is particularly interesting, as it was he who imposed the Fitna al-Khalq (Trial of the People), the Islamic Inquisition. Al-Ma'mun became caliph in 813 after a power struggle that ended with the beheading of the previous caliph, his brother. From the outset, al-Ma'mun's rule was turbulent and his allies few. Although he never embraced Shiism himself, he began to ingratiate himself with the Shiites. In 827 CE, al-Ma'mun officially declared that Muhammad's cousin Ali, the leader of the Shiites and their first Imam, was one of Muhammad's best companions. Even more striking than the move toward Shiite empathy was his alignment with Shiite rationalism: he declared the Quran to be a created book.
This was a monumental announcement, and to understand its magnitude one must pay attention to contemporary theological debates in Islam.
At that time, debates about the Quran arose among Muslim religious scholars over the doctrine of monotheism. Monotheism teaches that Allah is absolutely one; and naturally, among some thinkers, the conclusion was reached that since Allah is one, He cannot have attributes. Attributes limit His absolute unity, because they are things that He has as opposed to things that He is.
This conclusion from Islamic philosophy may take some exploration. If Allah has attributes, He must always have them, because He is unchangeable. That makes those attributes eternal. If those eternal attributes are not part of His essence, not part of His being, then something other than God existed alongside God from the beginning. The existence of eternal beings separate from the essence of Allah was an affront to Muslim religious scholars committed to monotheism, the absolute unity of Allah.
Where this philosophical debate was most significant was the issue of the Quran. It was understood that the Quran is the word of God and the attribute of His speech. Is the speech of Allah eternal? If so, something other than Allah, His speech, would be eternal. It would exist in the past eternity alongside Allah. Religious scholars who defended monotheism, such as the Jahmiyyah and the Mu’tazilah, considered this blasphemous in light of the absolute unity of Allah. It is clear why: that is, there are two eternal beings, Allah and the Quran.
To support their claim to the Bible, rationalists cited verses from the Quran that supposedly place its content in history. If the Quran refers to events in Muhammad’s life, such as the Battle of Badr, how can it be the eternal word of God? More convincingly, they cited verse 2:43 of the Quran, which says: “We have sent it down as an Arabic Quran.”
If the Quran was created, how could it be immortal? So the rationalists argued that the Quran was created and taught the doctrine of its own creation. Anyone who disagreed was an enemy of monotheism. That is why when al-Ma’mun declared the Quran to be a created book, he justified his statement by saying: “He who does not acknowledge that the Quran was created does not believe in monotheism.” Al-Ma’mun said that those who believed in the immortality of the Quran were “the worst of Muslims” and “the tongue of Satan.” He formed the Inquisition. For fifteen years, during the reign of three caliphs, Muslim thinkers in major cities who believed in the immortality of the Quran were interrogated, flogged, and threatened with execution for challenging monotheism. One of these men, Ahmad ibn Nasr al-Khuza’i, was brought to the Caliph al-Wathiq, who questioned him about the Quran. When it became clear that Ahmad did not agree with its creation but believed in its immortality, the caliph became enraged and personally beheaded him. Ahmad's head was taken to Baghdad and displayed as a warning to others who might be tempted to make a similar mistake. Although such executions were not common, the victims of the mihna included prominent religious scholars such as Ahmad ibn Hanbal, the founder of a major Sunni school of thought. It was ultimately the tenth Abbasid caliph, Mutawakkil, who abolished the mihna. He, less interested in his own theology, simply forbade discussion of the nature of the Quran.
Although the Islamic Inquisition ended in this way, the arguments about the Quran did not end there. Ultimately, the majority of Muslims supported a view that was completely opposite to the defenders of monotheism. Based on the position of a man named Ash'ari, the average Muslim today believes that the Quran is eternal, despite the problems it poses for monotheism. And how did Ash'ari counter the rationalist argument? How could the Quran be eternal without challenging the absolute unity of God? His famous answer was: "Bala kiif" or "without any way." In other words, there is no rational solution; it is true that the Quran is eternal, and this does not contradict monotheism. In this declaration, Ash'ari emphasized revelation and tradition over reason and rationality, and his approach has dominated Muslim thinkers ever since. Over time, and without any logical defense, Ash'ari's position on monotheism became the standard view, changing the history of Islam forever. His position is so strong that, ironically, those who take al-Mamun’s place today face persecution. In 1995, a highly respected Egyptian scholar named Nasr Abu Zayd was declared an apostate by the Islamic courts for believing that the Quran was partially created. His marriage was officially annulled, he was threatened with death, and he was effectively forced into exile. However, in more tolerant Muslim environments such as Turkey, debates about monotheism and the Quran continue unabated.
The Mihna is now just an obscure footnote in the annals of Islamic history. Most Muslims today are unaware that, in the eyes of their predecessors, their beliefs about the Quran were a clear violation of monotheism. Yet the old debates resonate today. If a Muslim is asked how belief in an eternal Quran does not challenge monotheism, he must still answer in the same way that Ash'ari did more than a thousand years ago: No way. There is no logical answer.
Confidence in monotheism and skepticism about the Trinity
In my experience, Muslim believers take great pride in their monotheism, their conception of the unity of God. In contrast, they often see the Trinity as an indefensible, contradictory, and polytheistic doctrine, especially since most Christians are ill-equipped to articulate the Trinity or explain how it is monotheistic. It is because of this relative confidence in monotheism that the Trinity is one of the most common topics of Christian-Muslim conversation.
As a practicing Muslim, I simply had no idea of the contradictory forms of monotheism, nor did I realize how fragile relations between Muslims were because of it. I, and most Muslims I knew, simply thought that Islam’s doctrine of God was clearly defined, unanimously agreed upon, and completely unproblematic. In other words, we uncritically believed that monotheism was an impenetrable doctrine. But the Mihna shows that Muslims have significant disagreements about monotheism, and that there are multiple views within Islam. We have previously examined two views of monotheism in the Mihna that were so opposed that they caused bloodshed. A third view, equally divisive, is that of many Sufis, called Wahdat al-Wujud.
Literally translated as "oneness of being," this doctrine teaches that the entire universe is God. This is so offensive to some Muslims that they denounce Sufis as infidels and accuse them of monotheism. In contrast, Sufi Muslims often believe that their knowledge of God is the most intimate and pure form of Islam. These are just three of the different views on monotheism that have been widely held by devout Muslims throughout Islamic history.
The average Muslim is not aware of this. Perhaps more than anything else, my ignorance was why I was so confident in criticizing the Trinity. I want to point out that the word Trinity is not found in the Bible, and the doctrine took hundreds of years to establish. How is it possible that a doctrine that is central to Christian theology has a long and complicated history? But because I had not studied the history of monotheism, I did not know that the exact same criticisms were leveled at Islam: the word monotheism is not found in the Quran, and this doctrine also took hundreds of years to adapt.
When we look more closely at these two doctrines, we find that monotheism is similar to the Trinity in other surprising ways, but as with our comparison of the Islamic and Christian worldviews, the differences are significant. By the end of this section, we will see that monotheism is ultimately self-defeating, while the Trinity is not only coherent, but is what makes us truly human.
Chapter 6
Comparison of Monotheism and Trinity

In 2003, while I was still trying to convert my friend David Wood to Islam, I started watching him debate. Of the dozens of debates we watched, the Muslim debater I respected the most was Shabbir Ali. He spoke warmly, had a powerful stage presence, and seemed to be very familiar with both Islam and Christianity. I had the privilege of watching him debate in my hometown the following year, in front of nearly a thousand Muslims and Christians. I considered him the best Muslim debater in the world, and to be honest, I was a little surprised to see him live.
If someone had told me I would debate him myself one day, I would never have believed it! In the spring of 2015, I received an invitation to debate Dr. Ali at Wayne State University in Michigan. After much prayer and deliberation, I decided to accept and deferred the matter to Dr. Ali. When I received his response, I was heartbroken: He wanted to debate the Trinity.
Even though I had been a Christian for nine years and a full-time minister for five of those years, I still felt that the doctrine of the Trinity was at best something that Christians could explain and defend. It was not a convincing doctrine and certainly not something that would grab people’s attention. But I had already agreed to the debate and let Dr. Ali set the tone, so I could not back down now. As it seemed to me, I had accidentally entered into a debate with the best Muslim apologists in the world on the most difficult issue for Christians to defend. What was I supposed to do?
There was nothing I could do but pray and study seriously! So, together with my good friends and colleagues, I spent many hours on my knees and even more hours with my nose in books.
It was then, through prayer and study, that I realized how magnificent the Trinity is and how compelling it is when we trace it throughout the Bible and understand its implications. Studying the doctrine of the Trinity greatly increased my love for God. It was also in those same studies that I first learned the story of the Mihnah. When I discovered it, I was shocked. The Islamic Inquisition on Monotheism? Did Monotheism Have an Evolutionary History? The insights I gained from studying Monotheism more closely have since given me much more confidence in presenting the Trinity to Muslims.
My first discovery was the similarities between monotheism and the Trinity. Theologically, the debates about the Trinity developed among Christians in ways that were strikingly similar to the debates about monotheism among Muslims. To understand this, it is crucial to note that the Quran and Jesus are similar in their respective religions. In the case of Islam, the Quran is the eternal Word of God, and in the case of Christianity, Jesus is the eternal Word of God (John 1:1-14). This is more than a semantic coincidence. For Muslims, the Quran is the physical expression of Allah, and for Christians, the physical expression of God is Jesus. This is why each religion teaches its own eternality: they are manifestations of the one eternal God. But both of these teachings were formed on the anvil of intrareligious debates. As we have seen, this posed a significant problem for Islamic theology, because monotheism has traditionally taught that there is no division in God. How can the Quran, something that is somehow separate from Allah, be the eternal expression of Allah without compromising His absolute unity? Bill Keefe. On the other hand, Christian theology has no problem with the Word of God being an eternal expression of God that is somehow separate from God, because it does not teach the absolute unity of God. It teaches that Yahweh is three in one. But what does it mean for God to be three in one? Let’s make sure we have a good definition of the Trinity before we look at why Christians believe it.
Definition of the Trinity: Does it contradict itself?
The Trinity, like every other monotheistic doctrine, teaches that there is only one God. If we lose this, we lose everything! Christianity has always taught that there is only one God. Where Christian theology differs from other forms of monotheism is not in the number of gods, but in the concept of the personhood of God. The doctrine of the Trinity teaches that the one God exists in three persons. This is where Muslims often accuse themselves of contradicting themselves, but it is definitely not the case, and the reason is this: person is not the same as being. Your being is the quality that makes you what you are, but your person is the quality that makes you what you are. For example, we are human. This is what we are. That is why we are called human. But what we are is not the same as who we are. If someone asks, “Who are you?” I should not answer by saying, “Human!” That answers the question, “What am I?” not who am I? I am noble. That person is me. What I am is a human being. That being is my being and the person is separate.
Unlike man, who has only one person, God has three persons. He is one being, Jehovah, in three persons: Father, Son, and Spirit. He is more than capable of such an existence because He is God. If we say that God must have only one person, like humans, then we are making God in our own image. Who are we to limit God? It is up to God to tell us who He is.
This is where the debate really should be between Muslims and Christians: about revelation, not on the conceptual level of “trinity versus monotheism,” as if our reason alone can express or even decipher the nature of God. Based on their traditional teachings, Muslims and Christians must agree that God is greater than we can imagine, more complex than we can hope to understand. We are not in a position to determine the intricacies of God’s nature. If he tells us that he is one being in one person, we are obligated to believe him. If he tells us, “I am one being in three persons,” who are we to say no to God? As believers in revelation, we must turn to the Bible to learn about God.
Trinity in the Bible
The Bible is the reason why Christians believe that God exists in three persons. The doctrine of the Trinity is the best interpretation of the Bible. Just as the Quran does not systematically explain the doctrine of monotheism, the Bible does not explain the doctrine of the Trinity in one place. However, five elements are found repeatedly in the biblical text that are best interpreted through the lens of the Trinity:
1. There is only one God (e.g., Romans 3:30)
2. The Father is God (e.g. John 6:27)
3. Jesus is God (e.g. John 20:28; Romans 5:9; 2 Peter 1:1)
4. The Holy Spirit is God (e.g. Acts 5:3-5)
5. These three are distinct persons (e.g., John 14:16-17)
So, if there are three distinct persons who are God, but there is only one God, we are naturally led to the doctrine of the Trinity: one God existing in three persons.
The verse that shows the unity of these three distinct persons is Matthew 28:19, which says, “Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.” All three persons in this verse have the same name, because they are one entity.
Now you may have noticed that the above verses are found in the New Testament. A common question Muslims ask is, “If God is a Trinity, why do we have to wait until the New Testament to see it? Why didn’t God even mention the Trinity before?” My answer often surprises them: He started with the very first verse of the Bible. Genesis 1:1 says, “In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.” If we look closely at the word we translate “God,” Elohim, we see that it is plural. If we were to translate it literally, we would translate it “gods.” But the reason we don’t translate it that way is because the verb in the sentence is singular. The word Elohim is plural, but the verse treats it as a singular noun. So, in the very first verse of the Bible, we see that God is in a way plural, but in a way singular. This fits perfectly with the Trinitarian model: God is plural in terms of his persons, but singular in terms of his being. The oneness of God interpretation makes less sense of the verse.
Of course, if that were the only example, there wouldn’t be much, but we find three signs of the Trinity in Genesis 1. The second is in verse 26, where God says, “Let us make man in our image, after our likeness.” He is referring to himself in the plural. Why does God call himself “we”? Some respond that it is the plural of glory; a king might call himself “we,” and indeed, Allah does so throughout the Quran. Such an explanation is anachronistic, though. Biblical Hebrew does not use the plural of glory, and such a literary device had probably not yet been invented. To say that the Bible uses the plural of glory is to employ later ways of speaking and writing in the Bible, which is poor methodology. God is not referring to himself here with a royal “we.” God is indicating that he is in some way plural. Another indication of His trinity is found in verse 27, which says, “So God created man in His own image, in the image of God He created him; male and female He created them.” After emphasizing that God created humans in His own image, the Bible then says that He created them male and female. This does not mean that God has a gender, but rather that there is a plurality in His image. This is reflected in the Bible’s use of Him to refer to the human race and then changing it to them. The human race is in one sense singular, one humanity, but in another sense plural, made up of male and female. This is the image of God: singular and plural. So when we read this chapter carefully, we see that in the very first chapter of the Bible there are three indications that God is plural and singular. The Trinity is present in the Bible from the very first verse, even several times in the very first chapter.
Before we continue, it is worth noting that the Trinity is implied throughout the Old Testament. In Genesis 18, we find that Jehovah comes as a man to speak to Abraham and inform him that He will destroy Sodom and Gomorrah. Then, in verse 19:24, the Bible says, “Then the Lord rained upon Sodom and Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the Lord out of heaven.” It seems that Jehovah is both on earth and in heaven, the one on earth raining down brimstone from the one in heaven.
Lest it seem that Genesis is not so, Amos 4:11 supports this interpretation: “I overthrew some of you, as I overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, says the Lord…” Here Yahweh refers to God in the third person. This doesn’t make much sense in a monotheistic context unless we read the Old Testament through the lens of the Trinity.
Finally, an example of an Old Testament passage that demonstrates the divinity of all three persons of the Trinity can be found in Isaiah 48:12-16. The clarity of the statement can be lost because of the many statements that emphasize the speaker’s sovereignty, but if we remove the intervening statements, the text becomes: “I am he; I am the first and I am the last. My hand laid the foundation of the earth…” “And now the Lord God has sent me, and his Spirit.” Here, the first and last say that he was sent by the Lord God with his Spirit. The next verse calls the speaker “Jehovah,” “the Savior,” and “the Holy One of Israel.” In this passage, Jehovah is sent by Jehovah and the Spirit of Jehovah, and this makes little sense unless read through the lens of the Trinity.



Trinity and Monotheism in the Quran
Just as the Bible is the reason why Christians believe in the Trinity, the Quran is the reason why Muslims deny it. The clearest refutation of the Trinity is in the Quran 4:171. After denying the divinity of Jesus, he says: "Do not say [God] is three; rather, say that God is one." That is better for you.
But when we study the Quran more closely, it seems that the Quran does not actually deny the Trinity, but polytheism, that Jesus is a second god alongside Allah. For example, after denying that Jesus is God, 5:73 says: “They have disbelieved who say: ‘God is one of three (elements that make up God)’, while there is no god but God.” If the Quran defines the Trinity as three gods, with God being one and Jesus being the second god, who is the third? Apparently this is Mary, as is clear from 5:116, where Allah says to Jesus: “O Jesus, son of Mary, did you say to the people: ‘Take me and my mother for two gods besides the God of the worlds?’” So the Trinity that the Quran denies is actually three gods, three gods: Allah, Jesus, and Mary. At this point, some Christians argue that the Quran gets the Trinity wrong, and this rejects the Quran. Muslims often argue in response that there were probably Christians who worshipped Mary, Jesus, and God as a Trinity, and that the Quranic verses are aimed at them. I prefer to avoid this argument and instead emphasize that the Quran effectively denies polytheism, three gods, not the concept of a God in three persons as Christianity has traditionally taught.
In the rest of the Quran, Allah repeatedly states that there is only one God (e.g., 16:51; 47:19; 112:1), but always as a rejection of polytheism. The Quran never rejects the possibility of the existence of one God in three persons. This omission is notable, as this had been the orthodox teaching of Christianity for centuries before Muhammad and the advent of the Quran.
Ninety-nine names of Allah Almighty
In addition to denying polytheism, the Quran also describes the exaltedness of Allah, who deliberately keeps himself away from humans. He remains behind a veil and speaks to humans only through angels. Verse 42:51 states: “And it is not for any human being that Allah speaks to him except by revelation or from behind a veil or by sending a messenger, and He reveals by His permission what He wills. Indeed, He is the Exalted in Might, the Wise.” This verse is instructive for two reasons. In the last sentence, “He is the Exalted in Might, the Wise,” we find an example of the epithets that the Quran uses to describe Allah, who is also called by ninety-nine names. The Quran tells Muslims to call Allah by all His names (17:110), and Muslims often encourage each other to learn these names in order to gain a deeper understanding of God’s character. The implication of Allah’s transcendence is also instructive: it is not for man to know Him intimately. This is also reflected in His ninety-nine names, for there is no name that indicates that Allah desires intimacy with man. Two possible exceptions are Wali and Al-Wadud. Some take Wali to mean “friend,” but it actually means “protector,” emphasizing Allah’s protection, not relationship with Him. The other word, Al-Wadud, is more promising, because it means “beloved” and is used twice in the Quran. But when we look at this word more closely, it seems to have a declarative idea in mind, not a relational one, like “love.” This may seem like splitting hairs, but it is an important distinction. Only one of Allah’s ninety-nine names can imply His intimacy with man, and looking closely at this word does not yield anything that would imply a relationship. Of course, it would help if we had more context for the word, but we find only two instances of it in the Quran. And since they are titles, the surrounding words do not clarify the meaning. However, a look at the broader context is illuminating: in 11:90, al-Wadud is used to describe Allah just one verse after the warning, “Do not let your opposition to me cause you to be afflicted by the like of what befell the people of Noah or the people of Hud or the people of Salih,” and in 85:14 it is just two verses after the warning, “Indeed, severe is the punishment of your Lord.” None of this gives any assurance that Allah desires an intimate relationship with humans.
Indeed, nothing else in the Quran seems to indicate that Allah desires a relationship with humans. This is especially true of the relationship between father and son, for the Quran specifically denies God’s fatherhood (112:3) and in 5:18 it rebukes the idea of God’s spiritual fatherhood: “And the Jews and the Christians say, ‘We are the sons of Allah and His friends.’ Say, ‘Why then does He punish you for your sins? Rather, you are only human beings among those He has created.’” This verse is telling. When Jews and Christians suggest that they are children of Allah, the Quran tells us to condemn them and inform them that they are His creatures, just like all other human beings. It should also be noted that this verse actually uses the original and best word for “love” in Arabic, hab, but it uses it to explicitly reject people’s love.
This may come as a shock to Muslims who, like me, were raised to believe that God loves us. This is a common teaching among Muslims, but it is not taught in the Quran.
The verse that is often used to describe Allah’s closeness to us is 50:16, which says that Allah is closer to people than their jugular vein. What I was not taught, and what most Muslims I know are not taught, is that this verse is about a broad threat: Allah is so close to you that He knows your destructive thoughts well and He will cast the doubters into Hell. So, in fact, as part of our understanding of monotheism, we need to have a balanced understanding of Allah’s revelation to us.
God's will is that man pursue the relationship of a servant to his master, not the relationship of a child to his father. Nothing in the Quran indicates that God desires intimacy with humanity. We are not His beloved - just one of His creatures.
Distance vs. Relationship
There is an inherent reason why Allah is unwilling to have a relationship with humans, while Yahweh does. Because of monotheism, Allah is one. He is not inherently relational. Yahweh, on the other hand, is three persons. He is inherently relational. The implications are far-reaching.
When Muslims say “Allahu Akbar,” they mean “God is great,” and Christians agree. Both Muslims and Christians believe that God is the greatest being in the universe. But if Allah is the greatest and is inherently distant and has no desire for relationship, Islam exalts the attributes of distance and nonrelationship. On the other hand, if Jehovah is the greatest being and his essence is intimacy and love, Christianity exalts relationships and community. Remember from Chapter 2 that the one God exists as three persons who love each other selflessly. So love is the fundamental principle of God (1 John 4:8). It is out of that selfless love that he created this world and expects us to act in his reflection through love. That is precisely why the Bible teaches what it does: “‘You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.’ This is the first and greatest commandment. The second commandment is like it: ‘Love your neighbor as yourself.’” (Matthew 22:37-38).
Since God is the greatest being, relationship and love are the most important commandments for humanity. According to Christian teachings, God is our Father. He loves us as a perfect father and will always love us. He wants us to have an intimate relationship with him, to turn to him with our fears and failures, with our dreams and victories. He wants us to be happy with him and in him. All of this is because God is three persons and is love in his very nature. All of this is very different from the traditional teachings about Allah in Islam.















Chapter 7
Question complexity

In the 1920s, a scientific discovery changed the world forever. Until then, physics had been one of the most unchanging and well-known fields of scientific knowledge. Isaac Newton’s principles had been proven over and over again for hundreds of years. Some 19th-century physicists, such as Pierre-Simon Laplace, even began to boast that science was now equipped to explain all motion in the entire universe, both past and future. It seemed that man had conquered physics.
But in the late 20th century, scientists began to notice gaps in their understanding of the universe. In particular, the behavior of light did not always fit within Newton’s framework. Through the work of intellectual giants like Max Planck, Albert Einstein, Niels Bohr, and Erwin Schrödinger, physicists began to unravel the hidden secrets of light. Combining insights gained in the 1920s, Paul Dirac published his principles of quantum mechanics, and the world would never be the same. One of Dirac’s students, John Polkinghorne, shares how Dirac explained this discovery to his students at Cambridge. He took a piece of chalk and cut it in half. Placing one piece on one side of his lecture and the other on the other, Dirac said that classically there is a state where the piece of chalk is “here” and one where the piece of chalk is “there,” and those are just two possibilities. However, replace the chalk with an electron, and in the quantum world there are not only states of “here” and “there” but also a whole host of other states that are mixtures of these possibilities—a bit of “here” and a bit of “there” lumped together. In other words, something can be in two places at once in ways that defy reason. According to Polkinghorne, quantum theory allows states to be combined that are classically mutually exclusive. It is this counterintuitive possibility of plurality that separates the quantum world from the everyday world of classical physics.
This understanding, a counterintuitive and seemingly contradictory truth, opens the door to 21st-century technological advances that humanity could previously only dream of: technologies like MRIs, smartphones, and Blu-Ray players all owe their existence to it. Quantum physics and fields like quantum computing and quantum optics hold the future full of hope.
As a Muslim, I was taught from childhood that the doctrine of the Trinity was impossible because it was too complex and even contradictory. But the more humanity explores the universe, the more we realize its astonishing complexity. As my eyes were opened to the deeper truths of the universe, I came to accept that complexity does not in any way invalidate the Trinity. Why should we assume that the Creator is simpler and easier than our creation?
I might suggest that it should be the other way around: by definition, we cannot understand God. If God created our minds, then He must be greater than our understanding. Who are we to ask Him to be simple enough for us to understand? But as we have seen, the Trinity is not contradictory. There is no contradiction in the claim that there is one God in three persons. The common Muslim challenge that the Trinity is unrealistically contradictory and complex is not a valid problem. Quite the contrary, as we learned earlier through the story of the homeland, the Islamic formulation of divine simplicity poses a problem in explaining the eternality of the Quran. As we will now learn, the simplicity of monotheism has another flaw.
The Trinity and the Self-Sufficiency of God
Let us consider once again the basic teaching of monotheism: God is one. This means that in eternity past, before He created anything, Allah was alone. One, all alone. Until He chose to create the world and Allah had something to relate to. This is a major theological problem, because Islam teaches, through the ninety-nine names and more, that Allah is a relational being. But how could He be a relational being if He had no relation to the world before He created it?
It is important to note that I am using the word relationship here not to mean intimacy but to mean a relationship with something else. For example, Islam teaches that Allah, al-Rahman and al-Raheem, are the Most Gracious and the Most Merciful. Every believing Muslim knows this, as these are two of the most common names for Allah. But these attributes imply that Allah is a relationship, that He is kind to one and merciful to another. He may have the ability to be kind on his own, but he cannot be merciful unless there is something else. The same is true of mercy; something else must exist and be the object of His mercy for Allah to be inherently merciful.
So for Allah to be truly merciful and compassionate, He must first create the world. In other words, Allah is dependent on His creation in order to be Allah. He cannot be Rahman or Ar-Raheem unless He creates the world for mercy or compassion. Allah’s attributes are dependent on creation. Therefore, as in traditional Islamic teachings, it is illogical to say that Allah is inherently merciful or Rahman or any other attribute, whether or not it is in the ninety-nine names. If Allah is one, He needs His creation to have a relationship.
On the other hand, the doctrine of the Trinity teaches that the three persons of God have always loved each other with a self-sacrificing love. God has always been intimate, always loving. His mercy and justice are not conditional on his creation, for these express his eternal love for humans. That love was never conditional on the existence of humans.
Because of monotheism, Allah is dependent on man to be God. Yahweh, because of his triune nature, is truly independent and self-sufficient. Thus, the simplicity of monotheism is a fatal flaw for orthodox Islam in two ways: one is its inability to explain the eternal Quran, and the other is that it makes Allah dependent on his creation. The complexity of the Trinity, far from being self-contradictory, is what makes him logically consistent and self-sufficient. A more pertinent question that Muslims ask concerns the Bible. Jews and Muslims agree that God is a unity, not three persons. Doesn’t the Jewish understanding of monotheism stem from the Bible, and does it not deny the Trinity?
Shema: "The Lord our God, the Lord is one."
The most important scripture for examining Jewish monotheism is the Shema. It is similar to the Jewish Testimony and is found in Deuteronomy 6:4. It says, “Hear, O Israel: The LORD our God, the LORD is one.” But we must be careful to understand the Hebrew and its subtleties. In the first place, this verse could be translated, “Hear, O Israel: The LORD our God, the LORD is one.” But even if we translate it as “The LORD is one,” what kind of “one” is the Hebrew referring to? Absolute unity, as in the teachings of monotheism, or a composite unity, such as the man and woman who make up the human race, as we saw in Genesis 1? The Hebrew word for “one” used in the Shema is “echad,” and this word is often used in the Old Testament to refer to a composite unity. To illustrate, let’s look again at Genesis 1. Verse 5 says that the evening and the morning were one day. In other words, a day is a combination of evening and morning. Since the Bible refers to something that is one but is made up of many parts, it uses the word echad. In Numbers 13:23, a cluster of grapes is called an echad because a cluster is made up of many grapes. In Ezekiel 37:17, Ezekiel is told to hold two sticks together as if they were one. Again, in Hebrew, the word echad describes this compound unity. As a final example, the Bible, referring to the image of a man and a woman, says that through marriage, a man and a woman become one. The word the Bible uses to describe two in one? Of course, echad. So when the Shema says, “The Lord is one,” the Bible uses that word specifically, allowing it to mean a composite unity. Putting this together with our Bible references in the previous chapter, the Bible tells us that there is only one God, Jehovah. The New Testament is clear that three separate persons are each God, but not each other. We must conclude, then, that there is one God in three persons. The Old Testament, starting on the first page, explicitly suggests that God is several, and the Shema uses verbs that we would expect if Jehovah wanted us to know that He is one God in three persons.
Jews and the Trinity
When I mention these findings to Muslims, I am often asked why Jews do not interpret the Bible in such a way that the one God may have multiple persons or expressions. When I reply, they are surprised that some do! One example is the Zohar, the famous and highly respected foundational text of Jewish mystical thought. Noting the Shema, it says: “These three are one... So the secret of the three divine manifestations, which are designated by ‘the Lord, our God, the Lord,’ is that the three states constitute a single unity.”
But the belief that Yahweh existed in multiple person or terms goes back beyond the mystical rabbis of Jesus’ own time. Jewish scholar Alan Segal argues that some first-century Jews had a “dualistic” conception of God. Daniel Boyerin, himself an Orthodox Jew and scholar, argues that the rabbis declared such notions heretical only in response to Christian theology, not before. In other words, according to some leading Jewish scholars, views such as the Trinity were already present among the Jews when Jesus taught in Israel. Only after the Jews and Christians had parted ways did the rabbis declare such notions heretical because they were a reaction to Christian theology.
Chapter 8
Are Muslims and Christians
Do they worship one God?

In April 2015, I had the opportunity to encourage Christian students to connect with their Muslim neighbors. It was a church service at a Christian college in upstate New York, and at the center of the largely Caucasian audience was an Iraqi woman, clearly recognizable by her hijab, the veil that Muslim women typically wear. I have learned the hard way that whenever I address an audience, I must do my best to present my message without offending people more than I have to. If people are going to find the gospel offensive, I would rather it not be because of my presentation. So at the appointed hour, I tried to read her response to my argument and testimony, but she showed no reaction. She simply listened. At least she wasn’t overtly offended—so far so good!
At the end of my talk, a woman in the audience asked me a controversial question: “Do Muslims and Christians worship the same God?” My answer to this question had offended Muslims in the past, and I was worried that it would do so again. But another thing I’ve learned the hard way is that when a question is asked, I should try to answer it directly. So I said a quick prayer in my heart and began.
I began by stating the obvious: Christians worship the Trinity, while Muslims worship God as a unity. This is not an accidental difference. Islam goes to great lengths to condemn the Trinity as blasphemy (4:171). The Quran rejects the relational aspects of Allah, saying that He is not the Father (5:18) and that He is not the Son (112:3). This establishes its own doctrine of God, monotheism, in complete opposition to the Trinity, and this doctrine becomes the central doctrine of Islamic theology.
Most people who say that Christians and Muslims worship the same God are aware of this difference, but they consider it relatively insignificant. It is not an insignificant difference, though. It has major implications. Since humanity is made in the image of the Triune God, love is woven into our nature. The Trinity gives us the most solid and powerful basis for self-sacrifice and altruism.
This is an important point to unpack. Of course, many people are very altruistic, regardless of their worldview. As secular humanists show, one does not need to believe in God to truly care for others. There are even people who do not believe in any kind of morality, but still want to care for people. Ultimately, however, such unfounded altruism is a feeling, something a person just wants to do. Unless someone believes in a transcendent basis for altruism, their desire to care for people is irrelevant and fleeting, little more than a whim. According to this amoral worldview, there is nothing worthy of being kind. Even if someone wants to be altruistic, the next moment it is perfectly consistent with their worldview to want to be selfish.
Others believe in an ethic that is essentially derived from evolutionary theory. People should care for each other because the work of life is for survival, and we should care for other members of our species. Although this is a more basic basis for altruism, it is ultimately still a weak one: Why should I, a thinking individual, participate in the work of life? What if I don’t want humanity to survive? Moreover, if my primary purpose in doing so is to care for my own species and thus to care for myself, is it really altruistic of me to care for others?
Thus atheistic altruism, while it may be sincere and feasible, is ultimately either sentimental or utilitarian and selfish. To more firmly ground altruism, one must consider theistic models. In the case of Islam, Allah commands Muslims to care for orphans, widows, the poor, the wayfarer, and others. A Muslim can obey out of selfish motives, such as a desire to avoid hell or to gain paradise, or he can obey out of a selfless desire to please God. Thus theism, as in the case of Islam, offers a deeper form of altruism.
But the Christian model of theism goes even further. Much further. Remember that God’s eternal love is inherent in who He is. Each person of the Trinity loves others selflessly. It was out of this selfless love that God created humanity. In other words, we are made in the image of a loving, selfless God, so by nature we are designed to be loving and selfless. When we are self-centered instead of self-sacrificing, we act against our nature.
From a Christian perspective, people should love others selflessly, not just because it’s a good idea, not just because it helps our species survive, not just because it brings us a reward, and not just because it pleases God. People should love selflessly because that’s who we are. Humans are made in the image of a selfless God. Loving others is what makes us truly human.
No other worldview has so deeply embedded in humanity the commitment to love and care for one another. As a foundation for altruism, nothing surpasses the Trinity. So I answered the woman’s question by emphasizing that Christians worship the Triune God, and that this makes a huge difference in how we view ourselves and the world around us. Shortly after my answer, the Iraqi woman approached me. In a thick Arabic accent, she thanked me for my talk, and I thanked her in a thick American accent for listening. I asked her what brought her to the Christian college, assuming her friend was a Christian.
She replied that just five weeks earlier, she had seen Jesus in a dream. He told her to go to a certain church in her town to learn the truth about Him. At the church, a woman befriended her and shared the Gospel with her. Without hesitation, she renounced her Islamic faith and accepted the gospel of Jesus. From that day on, she had learned everything she could about God, and when her friend found out that I was speaking at a Christian college, she brought her with her. It was her friend who had raised the question: Do we worship the same God?
So it turns out that the Muslim woman in question is not a Muslim after all, but a new Christian sister. Out of curiosity, I asked her friend why she was still wearing the hijab, to which she replied that they were so busy discussing Jesus that they hadn’t had a chance to talk about it yet! I was so happy to hear that answer. There is nothing inherently wrong with the veil, and focusing on it would be a waste of time compared to learning the truth about Jesus. The question of whether Muslims and Christians worship the same God is a complex one, and there is much more that could be said. Ultimately, when we understand the Trinity, we realize that this doctrine is not just a theological curiosity. It has far-reaching implications for how we live and how we see the world, and it makes the Christian God decidedly different from the Muslim God. It is what makes God unique and eternal in His love. This is how God can be in us through the Holy Spirit, while being over us as Father, and suffering for us in the Son.
And it is this Son that most distinguishes the Christian God from the Muslim God. We must learn about him not only in light of the Trinity but also in light of his life on earth. Now that we understand the doctrine of the Trinity, that the one God exists as three persons, we will better understand what Christians mean when they say that the second of these three persons came into this world as a man named Jesus.

















Part 3
Muhammad or Jesus?
Two different founders







Chapter 9
Council of Nicaea

The church had no political or military power in its first three hundred years, living by faith and enduring persecution. Christian martyrdom did not mean dying with a sword in hand, but rather dying for the faith. Jesus’ words were still fresh in their minds—“For all who take the sword will perish by the sword” (Matthew 26:52)—and the young church fought no wars.
Ironically, the Roman effort to kill was the midwife of the church. It was the Roman prefect of Judea, Pontius Pilate, who unwittingly helped lay the foundation of the Christian faith by ordering the crucifixion of Jesus. A few years later, Nero infamously accused Christians of the crime he himself had committed. The Roman historian Tacitus reports that Nero “wrongly accused those who were called Christians of sin and punished them with the most terrible tortures.” It was during this period of imperial persecution that Peter and Paul were executed. But by killing Jesus and the Church Fathers, the Roman Empire strengthened the spirit of Christianity: many embraced martyrdom in order to have the honor of following the Lord and his apostles in suffering for God. Tertullian bears witness to this indomitable spirit with his famous words: “Whenever we are shot for your sake, we multiply. The blood of Christians is like seed.”
Christians faced these imperial or local persecutions in parts for almost three hundred years, and the night grew darker just before dawn. In February 303 AD, Emperor Diocletian ordered the destruction of a church and its Bible, and issued a decree that the same should be done to churches throughout the Roman Empire. The historian Eusebius of Caesarea, an eyewitness to these events, tells us in his Ecclesiastical Histories: “Royal decrees were everywhere issued ordering that churches be razed to the ground, and that the Bible be destroyed by fire.” He continues that the persecutions intensified in the days to come: “The first decrees that others issued were that… those who refused to offer sacrifice to the Roman gods should be tormented with innumerable tortures. Who could then count the multitude of martyrs?” It was during this, the greatest and most sustained persecution of Christians by the Roman Empire, that a young man named Constantine rose to the position of emperor.
In October 312 AD, Constantine was preparing to fight an army twice his size. According to Eusebius, as he led his troops into battle, he had a vision: a shining cross above the sun, with the words written in the sky: “By this means, conquer.” The vision astounded Constantine, but that night, Jesus appeared to him in a dream and told him to use this symbol as a shield in all his battles. So Constantine ordered his men to mark their shields with the Christian symbol. One can only imagine that the soldiers did not want to have the symbols of a persecuted minority on their shields, but they complied. The next day, the soldiers won a decisive victory, and Constantine marched into Rome as the victorious emperor.
After his supernatural encounter, Constantine immediately attempted to reverse Diocletian’s persecution. He granted freedom of worship to all religions, Christianity and other persecuted minorities, with the Edict of Milan in 313 AD. This moment was a turning point in the history of the church: not only were Christians allowed to worship without risking their lives, but they were also allowed to have their own Bibles and the ability to assemble openly. Finally, for the first time since the crucifixion of Jesus, all Christian leaders could meet openly to discuss the Bible and their teachings under imperial protection, without reprisal.
The Council of Nicaea and the Arian Controversy
The bishops' first and greatest concern, shared by Constantine, was the growing dissension in the church over a man named Arius and the teachings he espoused. To examine the situation of Arius, Constantine invited 1,800 bishops from across the Roman Empire, in modern-day Spain, to meet at Nicaea in 325 AD. Although he offered to provide transportation and lodging, only 318 were able to come. Some, like the bishop of Rome, were too old to attend, while others were physically unable to make the journey due to infirmities from persecution or other causes. Those who were able to come were described by the church historian Theodoret as "the assembly of martyrs." He describes Paul of Neo-Caesarea, a bishop in modern-day Turkey, as an example of someone who had suffered greatly under the tyranny of Licinius. He was deprived of the use of both hands by the use of a red-hot iron, which had severed and destroyed the nerves that moved the muscles. Other bishops of the council, such as Paphnutius of Egypt, had their eyes gouged out and their limbs torn to pieces. Yet they bravely endured the long journey to Nicaea to participate in the discussions. These men had experienced the greatest persecution of Christians the Church had ever seen, and rather than compromise their faith, they were tortured and torn to pieces. These were the men who were now summoned to debate the controversial teachings of Arius: “That the Son had a beginning, but God was without beginning... He is neither part of God nor of anything secondary.”
The council allowed Arius to share and defend his position. To clarify the issue, Arius emphasized that he believed Jesus to be divine. As he had said in a letter to the bishop of Nicaea, Arius believed that the Son “deserves no substance. But that by his own will and counsel before time and before the ages, he subsisted as perfect God, only begotten and unchangeable, and was not before he was begotten, or created, or purposed, or established. For he was not undone.” Arius therefore believed that Jesus was indeed a deity, but not God. The Father “begotten, created, or purposed, or established” Jesus before time and the creation of the world. God had created a second God. When what Arius believed was made clear, the council recognized his teachings as heresy and, since the church had always taught monotheism, declared Arius a heretic. With the agreement of 316 bishops, the council promulgated the Nicene Creed, the first church resolution in history.
Nicaea in popular memory
Seventeen hundred years later, the Council of Nicaea holds a prominent place in public memory, but the details are often misunderstood, as demonstrated by an encounter I had with a young Muslim man in June 2010. David Wood and I attended an Arab festival in Dearborn, Michigan. We had heard that the event attracted more than two hundred thousand Arabs, and we thought it would be a great opportunity to talk to people about Jesus. So, wearing a T-shirt that said “Jesus Always Loves You,” I walked through the festival with David and waited for people to approach us with questions.
We had an exciting day with many enlightening discussions. As we were leaving, a group of teenagers stopped us and indicated that they had questions. As a youth pastor at the time, I was always encouraged by connecting with teens interested in faith issues, but this was especially encouraging because they had an air about them that reminded me of my own childhood: a confident zeal for Islam and a complete skepticism about Christianity. I was not at all surprised when one of the first questions they asked concerned the Council of Nicaea. One teenager commented that Nicaea was “the first time they concluded that Jesus was God.” I was truly impressed that he correctly identified the theme of the council. In the mosques I attended as a youth, it was often repeated that Christians decided at the Council of Nicaea to remove books from the Bible and put others in. We found this to be completely unfounded. The books of the Bible were not even discussed at Nicaea. I have since noticed that for whatever reason, people decide to bring all sorts of church conspiracies into this council. So it was encouraging that the teenager got the point right, but completely misunderstood the text of the statement. This was not the time when the church finally decided that Jesus was God.
On the other hand, when the Church was finally able to meet for a council after three hundred years of intermittent persecution, their first concern was to lay down without debate the cornerstone of their faith: “Who is Jesus?” All 318 bishops present agreed that Jesus was divine. No one suggested that Jesus was merely a man. And when both sides had heard all the arguments, more than 99 percent agreed that Jesus was no less than God himself. Not just a man, not just a prophet, not just a goddess, but God: “God of gods.” There is a reason for this unanimous view: the belief that Jesus is “in the very nature of God” was one of the earliest beliefs of the Church. The Gospel has always been about God and what he has done for humanity: he created them, he loved them, he lived among them, he saved them, he guides them, and his kingdom is at hand. Without understanding this, the Bible cannot be understood. The doctrine of the divinity of Jesus makes a huge difference in how the Christian faith works and what it means to follow Jesus. Just as the divinity of Jesus is central to Christian theology, the prophethood of Muhammad is central to Islamic theology. There is a reason why Muslims must affirm the status of the prophet every time they recite the Shahadah. If Muhammad is not a prophet, Islam will fall apart.
When people gloss over Christianity and Islam as if they are the same, they ignore this fundamental fact: Jesus has a very different status in Christianity than Muhammad does in Islam. Divinity is distinct from prophethood.
The positions of Jesus and Muhammad, apart from being role models for their followers, are in no way parallel unless we combine Islamic and Christian teachings. Let's carefully consider the Christian view of Jesus and compare it to the Muslim view of Muhammad so that we can understand exactly how they differ and why it matters.









Chapter 10
Comparison of the Apostle and Christ

It’s been a decade since I left Islam, and in that time I’ve had some frank conversations with my extended family. Amidst the many abstract theological issues, I try to pay attention to the more internal questions, because they tend to provide insight into a person’s true place. One question I’m often asked is, “We respect Jesus, so why can’t Christians respect Muhammad?” In a sense, it’s a fair question. Muslims rarely, if ever, say anything negative about Jesus, and I’ve heard Christians say very negative things about Muhammad. While I agree that Christians should tread carefully when covering sensitive topics, this question is a classic example of the inappropriate blending of Muslim and Christian perspectives.
From my experience, what Muslims generally “respect” is the Islamic understanding of Jesus, not the Christian understanding.
For example, a family member who is particularly close to me once lamented that Muslims honor Jesus, while Christians do not honor Muhammad, but the next time he said that Jesus would be a “weak and helpless God” if he died on a cross. When I protested that this was disrespectful to Jesus, he did not understand it. It took me a few moments to show him that from my perspective, this was very offensive. However, he hardly noticed the offense, because he was so immersed in his own perspective. What he needed to understand the Christian perspective was an explanation of who Jesus was from the beginning.
A God who comes to this world
As we saw in the previous chapter, the Quran explicitly states that Allah is behind the curtain, so Muslims consider God to be an entity that does not enter this world. However, Christians do not believe this, because their Bible teaches exactly the opposite: the Bible repeatedly shows that God has come among his people.
Beginning in the third chapter of Genesis, the very beginning of the Bible, we find God walking in the garden where Adam and Eve were (Genesis 3:8). In Genesis 18, God appears as a man to Abraham and speaks to him. In Exodus 34:5-6, God stood with Moses and walked before him. In Exodus 24:9-11, Aaron, Moses, and seventy-two elders all saw God at the same time and even ate supper with Him. In an even more tangible experience, Jacob wrestled with God in Genesis 32:24-28. In Exodus 13:21, when the Hebrews needed guidance in the wilderness, God personally led them as a pillar of smoke by day and a pillar of fire by night. In another very important account, God commanded the Hebrews to build a tabernacle for Him, a place where He would come down and “dwell among them” (Exodus 25:8-9). After it was built, God filled the tabernacle with His glory (Exodus 40:34). These many appearances of God on earth are often called theophany.
Another theology in the Torah, Exodus 3:4, actually has parallels in the Quran. In this passage, God calls Moses from a burning bush. The bush was burning because of God’s presence, which is why God says, “Take off your sandals, for the place where you are standing is holy ground” (verse 5). There was nothing holy about the ground itself, but God’s presence made it holy. God’s presence in the bush is reflected in Quran 27:7-14. As Moses approaches the bush, a voice from it calls out, “Blessed is he who is in the fire.” The Quran also imagines God physically in the fire. That the ground was holy is reflected in 20:12, where God says, “Take off your sandals, for you are in the holy valley of Toi.” As in the Bible, there is nothing inherently holy about the valley. If it is sanctified by the presence of God, it makes perfect sense. However, regardless of how a Muslim interprets the Quran, Christians traditionally interpret the Torah verses as theophany. Yahweh is a God of love who desires intimacy with his people, so he comes among them.
God promised to come from childhood.
In the days of the prophet Isaiah, God informed His people that He was about to do something special: He would be born into this world as a child. In Isaiah 9:6, the Bible says, “For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the government shall be upon His shoulder: and His name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.” Christians have understood this verse from the very beginning in Jesus: God, who has come to this earth many times before, is announcing His future incarnation. The Almighty God is born as a child. This comes just a few chapters after Isaiah 7:14, which says, “Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.” Putting this together, Christians believe that hundreds of years before Jesus, the Hebrews were told that God would be born among them.
The Word became flesh and tabernacle among us.
When God finally lived among his people, a new era began. The Bible from this era is called the New Testament. According to early church tradition, John, one of Jesus’ three closest disciples, wrote an account of Jesus’ life in the New Testament called the Gospel of John.
He begins his narrative by reminding readers of who Jesus was before he lived on earth. John 1:1-3 is a very important passage for understanding the Christian view of Jesus. As we learned in the previous chapter, Christians believe that there is one God who exists as three persons, the second person being the Word. Just as the Quran is in one sense separate from God and in another sense an expression of His divine knowledge and speech, Christians believe that the Word is in one sense separate from God and in another sense a part of Him. This is precisely the teaching of John 1:1: “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.” The Word was with God (i.e., separate from Him in one sense). Yet the Word was God (an expression of Him in another sense).
The next verse teaches the doctrine that the Word is eternal. Again, just as Muslim theologians have classically taught that the Quran is the created knowledge and speech of Allah, so the Bible teaches that the Word is eternal alongside the Father. “In the beginning was with God” (John 1:2). From the very beginning, before time, the Word was present with God. It had to be so, because he was the expression of God, who is eternal.
Also, just as Muslim scholars have traditionally taught that the Quran is best understood as the knowledge or speech of God, the Greek word for word is Logos, and it encompasses two concepts: reason and speech. These two meanings are included in the English derivatives logic and dialogue. When God created the world, He used His divine reason and speech. These are the ideas embodied in the concept that God the Father created the world through the Logos, found in John 1:3. “Without Him was not anything made that was made.” Thus the world was made through the Logos, the Word—the divine reason and speech.
Finally, departing from any parallel in Islamic theology, we find John 1:14: “And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us.” The Logos, the Word who is God, became a man and lived among us.
According to the disciple John, it is Jesus Christ. Jesus is eternal and it was through him that the world was created.
What is interesting about John 1 is that it is full of theology from the Torah, emphasizing that this is not a new belief but a continuation of what God had done in the time of Moses and the prophets of old. An example is the phrase John chooses in verse 14. When he says the Word “dwelt among us,” he is literally saying the word tent among us, reminding his Jewish readers of the Almighty God in Exodus 40:34 and what God had done. In the time of Moses His glory once again dwelt among men like a tent, but this time by coming as a man.
This is the Christian view of Jesus: the God who created the world, walked with Adam, talked with Abraham, wrestled with Jacob, stood with Moses, ate with Aaron, and led the Hebrews. His prophecy that he would be born for us as a son of man. Jesus is “God with us,” the second person of the Trinity, the eternal Word through whom the world was created.
He is a real man.
Before we continue, it is important to emphasize that Christians do indeed believe that God became a man. He was born as a baby, ate, grew in wisdom and stature, wept, suffered, and died. He did not just appear as a man. He became a man, but by the word transformation, Christians do not mean a change in the nature of God. God never changed during any of the theologies in the Torah, and He did not change during His incarnation. Christians traditionally teach that God, rather than changing, took on a human nature in addition to His divine nature. This doctrine is called the hypostatic union. When the Bible says that Jesus “grew in wisdom and stature” or that Jesus died by crucifixion, Christians believe that this is speaking with respect to His human nature, not His divine nature. Christians have traditionally taught that everything Jesus did on this earth, He did as a man. He taught as a human teacher, received prophecies as a human prophet, and performed miracles as a man with divine power. That is why he tells his disciple Philip that people can do the works that Jesus did, and even greater works (John 14:12).
But even though Jesus was a man, he was not of Adam’s lineage, as we should recall from chapter 1, and he passed on his broken image to his children. Jesus, who was born into the world by the Holy Spirit (Luke 1:35), was human as humans should be: invincible. Because Jesus never sinned as a man, and because he also had a divine nature, he could forgive the sins of mankind by taking the punishment for sin. This is one reason why Christian theology would not work if Jesus were not God. Also, because Jesus was never broken by sin, he lived a perfect life as an example of how the rest of us should live. Not an example in the sense of someone who made all the right choices, but an example in the sense of a perfect prototype, a model after whom all humans are made.
Prophets in Islam: Men to Follow
Functioning as a model is perhaps the only similarity between Jesus in Christianity and Muhammad in Islam, but even in this similarity the mechanics are different. For Muslims, Muhammad is the perfect model not because he is the unbroken image in which we are made, but because he is the most perfect example of man, the greatest who ever lived. Indeed, for some Muslims, Muhammad's greatness is legendary.
When I was ten, my mother enrolled me in a Sunday school run by our local mosque in Norfolk, Virginia. The mosque itself was Sunni, but the teachers and students came from many branches of Islam. I had two teachers there, a Sunni Islamic studies teacher and a Shiite Quran recitation teacher. For all practical purposes, we believed the same things, which is why my mother could enroll me there. But of course there are differences between traditions, and sometimes I heard things there that I hadn’t heard before.
One day, my Islamic studies professor was talking about the nature of Muhammad. He emphasized that “Muhammad played many roles: prophet, merchant, general, husband, father, son, and so on. He excelled in each role.” So far so good. That’s what I’d always been taught. But then he said something new: “Muhammad never showed emotional weakness. If he cried and his tears fell on the ground, the earth would become barren!”
Although my parents greatly revered Muhammad, this was a step or two further than they had ever gone before. Not all Muslims believe in this kind of superhuman status for Muhammad, but Muslims traditionally consider him the greatest man who ever lived, and this account shows how highly some Muslims hold the Prophet of Islam.
Prophethood in Islam is more than a role. It is a position. Prophets are greater than ordinary people, appointed by Allah to lead a people. To consider Muhammad the chief of the prophets is indeed a great claim. It was on the basis of this prophetic position that Muhammad established his authority and preached Islam.
Since Allah had made him a prophet, the religion he taught was true and should be followed. Muslims, based on their special status with Allah, have two beliefs about prophets: that all prophets are innocent, and that Allah hears the cries of the prophets in persecution and saves them from death. However, the Quran seems to teach that prophets sinned (e.g. 28.15-16; 38.24-25; 47.19), and that they were often killed (e.g. 2.61; 3.183; 5.70). Accordingly, Muslim scholars tend to disagree with these popular views, although they are not unanimous. Regardless, most Muslims believe that Muhammad was specifically innocent, especially because God commands Muslims to follow him (33.21).
The Prophet and the Sharia
Muhammad’s status as the perfect model is one reason why Muslims have gone to great lengths to record his life. In the centuries after his death, more than five hundred thousand narrations of Muhammad’s life were in wide circulation. As we learned in Chapter 1, these narrations are called hadith, and they record details of Muhammad’s life, from childhood anecdotes to the decisions he made as a general and statesman.
As my Sunday school teacher taught, Muhammad had a series of roles and he played them well. So when Muslims want an example of the perfect husband, or the perfect statesman, or the perfect general, or the perfect businessman, they turn to Muhammad’s life for exemplary guidance. The hadiths record what Muhammad said and did on thousands of occasions, and they told the Muslim people to do it in turn.
That is why, unlike the teachings of Jesus, which focus on principles and transformation of the heart, guidance in Islam is in the details. Sharia comes to the Muslim people in the form of thousands of decisions by jurists and scholars familiar with the traditions of Muhammadan life. Everything goes back to the exemplary life of the Prophet.
Thus, the primary basis for accepting Islam is that Muhammad is a prophet of God and that the guidance he brings, the Sharia, is largely interpreted from his life record as an exemplary leader. For these reasons, Muhammad's prophethood is fundamental to Islam.
Misunderstanding of Jesus the Christian and Muhammad the Muslim
Some early Orientalists, noting the great emphasis placed on the person of Muhammad in Islam, called Muslims “Mohammedans.” When I was a Muslim, this title bothered me because it seemed to imply that we worship Muhammad. I now realize that this was simply a careless design: the focus of the Christian faith is entirely on the person we worship, so it is appropriate to call followers of Christ “Christians.”
In Islam, although much attention is paid to Muhammad, he is not someone Muslims worship, so it is offensive to many Muslims to call them Muhammadans. The same kind of misunderstanding regularly occurs in Muslim-Christian conversations, when Muslims assume that Christians worship a man. Since I became a Christian, many Muslims have accused me of deliberately worshipping creation rather than the Creator, but this is because they ignore Islamic views that Christians hold: that Jesus was only a man and that God did not come into this world. If Muslims and Christians could understand each other on these issues, the dialogue would be much more fruitful. Now let’s look at some common questions that are clarified by what we have learned so far.
Chapter 11
Questioning the God-Man

In the summer of 2012, I spent eight weeks in Oakland, California, studying Arabic through Middlebury College. I had just graduated from Duke University, where I had focused on the Bible and the Quran during my master’s degree. Although my mother had taught me how to recite Arabic as a child, I could not use the language to communicate, so I knew that a greater familiarity with Arabic would be a great help in my future graduate studies. I entered Middlebury just above the introductory level, which meant that I would be prohibited from communicating in any language other than Arabic for the entire eight weeks. The program was so strict about this rule that we had to sign a contract the day we arrived. No English, anywhere, for two whole months. Not even in the evenings or on the weekends!
Until then, I hadn’t realized how important language was for stress relief. No jokes, no storytelling—just lots of hand gestures and listening to the upperclassmen speak with great intensity. It was a very difficult time, but it forced us to learn how to cope quickly. Within a month, we were able to communicate with each other in terribly poor Arabic. Luckily, I had a friend near Oakland who was also an Arabic language student, and she regularly contacted expatriates in the area. She asked me if I would be willing to meet one of her Muslim friends from Saudi Arabia, and I happily agreed. That afternoon, I met a young student named Sahar. She told me about life as a woman in Saudi Arabia, including how the government had asked her to get permission from her younger brother so she could study in America. When I asked her what would happen if she refused, she replied, “She knows better than to say no to me!” The conversation soon turned to religious matters. Sahar pointed out that she was a staunch Muslim and had no intention of converting, but she had questions about the Christian faith. After asking many questions, she finally asked the one that seemed to be the most problematic for her. How can you believe that Jesus was born through a woman’s birth canal and had to use a bathroom? Aren’t these things beneath God?”
This is a very common question, but now we should be able to see why Muslims ask this question: Allah does not enter this world in Islam, while Yahweh has done so many times. Allah remains behind the scenes and sends messengers, while Yahweh is intimate and walks among us. When we remember that Yahweh is different from Allah, and that Jesus is the second person of the Trinity, the answer to many similar questions becomes readily apparent.
How could God die, and who was ruling the world at the time of Jesus' death?
These two questions were the first I asked David about the divinity of Jesus as a Muslim, and they are the most common questions Muslims ask me now. Since Islam has no concept of divine incarnation, these questions are understandable. Indeed, these are questions that Christians should ask themselves at some point, but they are not difficult to answer when we remember what we have learned in this chapter.
When someone asks me, "How can God die?" I ask for clarification, because the question can be posed from several angles. Almost always the questioner says something like, "God is immortal, so He cannot die." To that, I respond with a question of my own. I know what you mean, but let me ask you a question: When humans die, does our soul cease to exist? Of course, Muslims will answer, "No, our soul does not die," to which I reply, "So even when we die as humans, it is the body that dies. It is not that we give up our existence altogether. It was the same with Jesus: He was killed out of respect for his earthly body, but God did not cease to exist."
However, sometimes by asking, “How could God die?” Muslims are essentially asking, “Who ruled the universe?” There are many possible answers to this question, but the one I prefer is simple: the Father. That is why it is essential that Christians explain the Trinity adequately to Muslims if they are to address such issues. The Father is not the Son, and the Father did not die on the cross. It is unjust for God to punish Jesus for the sins of man.
This leads to another kind of question, one that even informed Muslims ask. During my closing statement in 2015, Dr. Shabbir Ali used some of the most scathing language I have ever heard to challenge the Bible. He said that if a father sent his son to die for the sins of the world, then that was “cosmic child abuse.” What kind of father is God if he punishes his son for the sins of others? At this point, we should be able to easily see the problem with this assessment: Christians do not believe that God punishes a random victim. Jesus is God. The judge himself voluntarily pays on behalf of the criminal. In contrast to Dr. Ali’s caricature, a more appropriate picture is shared by Brennan Manning in his book Ragamuffin Bible. In 1935, New York City Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia presided over a trial in which an old woman was caught stealing bread to feed her grandchildren. Although LaGuardia wanted to show mercy, the shopkeeper demanded justice. LaGuardia found her guilty and fined her ten dollars, but immediately took ten dollars from his own wallet and paid the fine on her behalf. The judge, acknowledging the woman's guilt, paid the fine and released her.
This is a beautiful picture of mercy and justice, but it fits the Bible better if we change a small detail: if LaGuardia wasn’t just a judge, but a shopkeeper from whom the woman stole. When we sin, we sin against God. He must judge us, but then He pays the price for what we have done. When we remember the Christian perspective of Jesus: He is God, it all makes sense.
No one has seen God.
Many Muslims have asked me how Jesus could be God, if the Bible says, “No one has seen God” (1 John 4:12). It makes sense for Muslims to ask this question and interpret the Epistle of John in light of monotheism, a one-pointed view of God. But the disciple John, the man through whom God wrote this Bible verse, is also the author of the Gospel of John, and he explains it to us in John 1:18: “No one has ever seen God; the only Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, he has made him known.” In other words, when the Bible says, “No one has ever seen God,” it is referring to God the Father. Jesus, who is God and is with the Father, knew Him. That is why Jesus could say to his disciple Philip, “He who has seen me has seen the Father” (John 14:9). To see Jesus is to see God, the same as to see the Father. So although no one has seen God the Father, people have seen God the Son. This means that every time someone in the Bible saw God, they saw the second person of the Trinity, Jesus. This problematic verse is easy to understand when we remember that Jesus is the second person of the Trinity.
The greatness of a king
Sahar’s question to me that summer afternoon in Oakland intuitively captured a feeling that I think many Christians could learn from: God is the King of the universe, unimaginably holy, and His birth on this filthy earth is far below His greatness. So I acknowledged her question, but then I asked her one in turn. Sahar, let’s imagine you’re on your way to a very important ceremony, dressed in your best clothes. You’re arriving on time, but then you see your daughter drowning in a pool of mud. What would you do? Let her drown and come back with dignity, or save her but arrive at the ceremony covered in mud?” Her answer was very matter-of-fact, “Of course, I would jump in the mud and save her.” With more nuance, I asked her, “Let’s say there were others with you. Would you send someone else to save her, or would you save her yourself?” Considering this, Sahar replied, "If it's my daughter, how can I send someone else? They don't care about her like I do. I would definitely go myself."
I paused for a moment and continued, “If you, a human being, love your daughter so much that you would lay down your dignity to save her, how much more can we expect from God, if He is our loving Father, to lay down His greatness to save us?” He thought about this for a moment, and the conversation continued. When dinner was over, my friend brought me back to the Arabic program. During my last week in Auckland, as the program was coming to a fruitful and merciful end, I received another text message from my friend inviting me to dinner, this time to meet a new Christian from a Muslim background. When I arrived, I was met with a brilliant dawn! The message of God’s self-sacrificing love had overcome him, and he could no longer remain a Muslim. A few days after our dinner, he had accepted Jesus as his Lord and Savior. Now it was time to rejoice with Him, share stories about our amazing God, and chart the way forward in His discipleship.
Chapter 12
Libya's best friend

In early December 2013, David Wood and I happened to be in Texas when the state was hit by a massive ice storm. The scene was surreal. The normally warm, sunny landscape was bleak and barren, with cars backing out of the driveways because the driveways were covered in thick sheets of ice. The sky was a dull gray, and confusion pervaded the air as airports canceled flights and people scrambled to find a way out of the state. We had just left a restaurant where we had met a young Pakistani woman who had recently converted from Islam and was seeking counseling to reconcile with her family. Her struggles were unnerving, and my spirits were heavy as we drove through the darkness back to our hotel. But as I entered the hotel lobby, I saw the headline on the TV, and my heart ached even more: A young American teacher had just been shot dead in Libya. A local news station was reporting that Ronnie Smith, a Texas man, had gone out for a morning jog when gunmen in a black Jeep shot and killed him. The news said that Ronnie had graduated from the University of Texas and was teaching chemistry in Benghazi. That made me cringe. Benghazi was a very unstable, war-torn city where militias held more power than the government.
When I went online, my suspicions were confirmed. Ronnie Smith was a Christian who wanted to serve the people of Libya. He was a deacon at his church in Austin and took his faith seriously: Since Jesus was willing to die for those who had sinned against him, Ronnie believed that following Jesus meant being willing to serve those who were his enemies and even risk your life. The gift God had given him was to teach chemistry, so he decided to serve the Libyans as a teacher.
Fully aware of the danger, he and his wife moved their family to Libya immediately after the Libyan revolution, while the country was still in turmoil. They decided to stay even after the attack on the American consulate by a group called the "Servants of Sharia" in which the US ambassador, Christopher Stevens, and three others were killed.
The Smiths stayed because they valued the lives of their neighbors and students more than their own safety. One of those students, Youmna Zantani, told reporters how Ronnie had affected her and other students. "After everything that happened in Libya, we lost hope, and he was the only one who supported us, motivated us, and told us that as long as we studied, everything would be fine. He devoted a lot of time to all his students. He decided to come here and help us, risking his life."
Rooney's motivation
Even as I write this, tears well up in my eyes. I think of great men like Ronnie Smith and I have to ask myself, how did Ronnie get to be this way? How did this man become so loving and selfless that he was willing to risk even his own family to serve those who could never give him anything in return? Thank God, I need not be surprised. It turns out that Ronnie, in response to a survey a few years before his death, recommended a sermon by John Piper entitled “Missions Are Profitable When You Die.” “It was through sermons like this that God called my family and me to unknown peoples,” Ronnie said of the sermon.
In that sermon, Piper impresses upon his congregation that Jesus “died and suffered for people all over the world in every nation.” If they are to truly follow him, his followers are called to do the same. “The love of Christ must be personally presented through religious missionaries to the people for whom he died… presenting the sufferings of his cross to the nations through the sufferings of his people.” Christians must be prepared to suffer with Jesus because their Lord suffered on the cross and he intends for the whole world to be influenced by his exemplary Christians.
Quoting Hebrews 13:13, “Let us therefore go out to him outside the camp, bearing the reproach which he suffered.” Piper spends more than half of his sermon explaining that Christians called to follow Jesus must be prepared to suffer for the sake of the world. He tells stories of martyrs who followed Jesus in reaching the world with his love. As I read the sermon, one example caught my breath in light of Ronnie’s death: Piper spoke of Raymond Lull, a Christian who traveled to North Africa knowing he might be martyred for sharing the gospel with Muslims. Lull was stoned to death as soon as he began preaching in Algeria. “What a way to go!” Piper said to the subject.
This is the teaching that inspired Ronnie Smith and made him the great man who served the Libyans to the point of death: Jesus wants us to follow him in bringing his love to the world, even if it kills us. When we consider the message of the gospel, all the pieces fall into place. God didn’t just tell us to love selflessly. He is our Lord and our Exemplar, and he did it for us first.
The Creator of the world, God, surrounded by angels and worshipped in unimaginable glory, was willing to descend to this world and suffer for people so that they might be saved and know His love. If He is the example for Christians, then Christians should be willing to leave any comfort and go anywhere so that people might know the love of God and be saved.
God was willing to suffer for those who sinned against Him, those who used the hands He had given them to crucify Him. He not only told His followers, “Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you” (Matthew 5:44), but He also exemplified it. If He is an example for Christians, then Christians should be willing to selflessly serve even their enemies, knowing full well that they may be killed for it.
The reason Christians can follow Jesus with boldness is that we are not concerned with trying to save ourselves. The gospel is that God has promised us salvation through his infinite mercy and grace. This is Christian teaching: Christians can follow Jesus and die for their enemies because the gospel promises and implements salvation and removes all fear of death. This frees us to love everyone, friend and enemy, and enables us to live according to the image in which we are made, the image of a God who is inherently loving. Combining this insight with what we have learned in the previous two parts of the book, the gospel calls us to live and love according to the image of the Triune God in whom we are made, and enables us to follow Jesus, the Lord and perfect example, even in the face of death.
This frees us to love everyone, friend and foe, and enables us to live according to the image in which we are made, the image of a God who is inherently love. Combining this insight with what we learned in the previous two parts of the book, the Gospel invites us to live and love according to the image of the Triune God in whom we are made, and enables us to follow Jesus, the Lord and perfect example, even in the face of death.
The Love of Christ: A Speaker to the World
Ronnie Smith knew all this well and left behind an example of a true Christian when he left this world. What was most sad, however, when I read his story, was that few in the media gave a clue as to what motivated Ronnie to be in Libya. Here was a vessel of Christian love, and few highlighted the source. But a few days later, the spotlight shifted to the lavish love of Christ.
A week after his murder, Ronnie's wife, Anita, wrote an open letter to the men who killed him. Its message was so transcendent and transcendent that it stunned the world. She didn't mince words.
To his attackers: I love you and I forgive you. How could I not? Because Jesus taught us to “love our enemies”—not to kill them or seek revenge. Jesus gave his life out of love for the very people who killed him, and for us today. His death and resurrection opened the door for us to walk in peace and forgiveness on the straight path to God. Because of what Jesus did, Ronnie is now with Jesus in heaven. Jesus came not only to take us to heaven when we die but to bring peace and healing to the earth. Ronnie loved you because God loves you. Ronnie loved you because God loved him, not because Ronnie was so great, but because God is so great.
Anita forgave the men who killed her husband. She forgave them because Jesus forgave us. She loves them because Jesus loves them. Read it again: She said she loved them! She loves the men who brutally killed her best friend, her husband of ten years, and left her infant son fatherless! How could she love those men? Shouldn’t she want to get even? Shouldn’t she want to hunt them down and take back what they took from her? It’s a forgiveness and a love that makes no sense and is unlike anything in this world. But as the media reaction shows, it’s love that captivates the world.
Jesus and Muhammad lived very different lives and were role models for their people in very different ways. The message of Islam is that Muhammad was the best man who ever walked the earth, but I think this world needs an example that transcends this earth. It needs a heavenly solution, something that makes no sense from a natural perspective and yet leaves all who witness it with a deep sense of awe that this is the answer. Ronnie's death was the voice of a martyr testifying to the love of Christ, and Anita's letter was her loudspeaker. That love can change the world.












Part 4
Quran or Bible?
Two different books








Chapter 13
Burning the Bible

On the first day of April 2011, twenty thousand demonstrators gathered outside the gates of a United Nations compound in Mazar-i-Sharif, a city long considered one of the safest in Afghanistan. The signs hastily carried by the crowd bore clichéd denunciations: “Death to America” and “Death to Obama.” They were given little time to prepare innovative slogans, for on the very day, as worshippers gathered for Friday prayers at local mosques, three imams struck a spark and ignited a flame in the crowd with one goal: bring the Americans to justice.
The people responded en masse, choosing the UN compound to express their discontent. The demonstration quickly turned into a protest, and the protest turned into a riot. The Afghan National Police failed to control the crowd and refused to allow the assistance of a NATO-led security force. The UN guards were tasked with defending the compound. As the crowd grew and their confidence in their numbers grew, some of the more zealous protesters began to riot and pelt the UN building with stones. The guards were helpless, and the situation quickly changed: the insurgents overran the guard towers and threw them to the ground. Taking weapons from the guards, they first began beating the guards, then shooting them. After killing four, they set the compound on fire and began hunting the foreigners.
The rebellion did not disperse until the Westerners were beheaded. Among the dead were two Scandinavians: the first female pilot in Norwegian military history, and a Swedish human rights researcher who had arrived in Afghanistan a month earlier. Additional casualties included four guards, all Nepalese Gurkhas; a Romanian political expert; and five Afghan insurgents.
The loss of twelve is tragic, especially when you consider that the UN is a humanitarian organization and those who join it often do so to help with foreign crises. But what makes this event more than just a tragedy is how absurd the violence was. The thugs demanded justice from the Americans, but instead slaughtered innocent Europeans and Asians. What happened? Why did they attack the UN?
A year ago, an anonymous Florida activist and pastor announced his plan to burn the Quran “for crimes against humanity” on the ninth anniversary of 9/11. He became an international pariah overnight. Many media outlets and the government urged him to reconsider, saying that burning the Quran could lead to American casualties abroad. The activist, under pressure from the White House, insisted that although he was not convinced, he had listened to their words and planned to talk to key imams. 9/11 came and went, and he did not burn the Quran. The media spotlight left him, the situation died down, and everyone went silent. But off-camera, the dialogue failed. Six months later, when virtually no one was watching, he pushed ahead with his plans. He held a mock trial, convicted the Quran of violence and oppression, and carried out the sentence by burning it. The video, like dozens of others showing the burning of the Quran, remains shrouded in mystery, except that the media broadcast it globally. Government officials, in turn, issued their own condemnations. As one news source reports, most Afghans were led by Hamid Karzai to condemn the burning. In response to the Afghan president’s announcement, the arsonist mullahs of Mazar-e-Sharif have escalated their violence and killings.
The sequence of events is so tragic that it is easy to overlook its absurdity. In response to the activist’s claim that Islam causes oppression and violence, Afghan imams called for his silence and hastened the killing of innocents. The media, which had been happy to condemn the activist’s dangerous behavior, gave him the spotlight, thereby hastening the deadly response from the East. The Mazar-i-Sharif rioters, who could not distinguish between Westerners and non-Westerners, took the lives of innocent Europeans. They were stereotypically killing Obama, the most pro-Islamic American president ever, who declared, “I consider it part of my responsibility as president of the United States to combat negative stereotypes of Islam wherever they appear.” Of course, even commenting on the Gurkhas’ connection to this atrocity makes us shake our heads. But let us now focus on the main issue: Throughout this series of events, no one doubted that burning the Quran would lead to riots and killings. It was a hard fact that no one even suggested otherwise. Not the media, not the government, not even Muslim leaders. Everyone knew that burning the Quran would lead to violence.
We should compare this to a similar event, both in time and proximity. In 2009, at Bagram Airfield in Afghanistan, the U.S. government announced that it had burned dozens of Bibles. A military official gave an enlightening reason: Bibles were trash, and the military burned trash.
This bears repeating. The United States government officially declared that the Bibles were garbage and burned them accordingly. I repeat this not to stir up emotion, but to provide a contrast: in this instance, there was no concern that any Christian would be subjected to a deadly crime because of the government burning the Bibles.
To further clarify the matter, let us consider how the Bible burning unfolded. The Christian soldier from whom the Bibles were confiscated did not complain publicly, and the church that sent them caused an outcry, even though the army should have just sent the Bibles to the church instead of burning them. This announcement was another attempt by the army to appease Afghan Muslims. Recently, a news outlet had broadcast a video showing soldiers at a Christian church service, and military officials feared that this would lead local Muslims to think that the army was there to evangelize. To quell their anger, the army, who suspected that there might be such anger, announced that they were burning the Bibles. They emphasized that they were so committed to not offending Muslims that instead of returning the Bibles, they would burn them as soon as the church tried to send them back.
Let us return to the main point: In all the government reports and decisions, no one believed that burning the Bible would lead to riots or murder. It was a hard fact that no one suggested otherwise. Not the soldiers, not the media, not the government, not even the church leaders. Everyone knew that burning the Bible would not lead to violence.


Difference between Quran and Bible
Why? Why is it so obvious that burning a Quran in Florida endangers lives halfway around the world, even if done by an obscure activist? Why is it so obvious that burning dozens of Bibles and calling them “trash” provokes no such reaction, even if done by a government?
I am not arguing that Afghan Muslims are illiterate and ill-tempered, easily provoked to thoughtless anger. Nor am I suggesting that Christians are so indifferent or so docile that they cannot be passionate about their holy book. Both are caricatures that miss valuable insights. I believe that the answer lies, at least in part, in the fact that the Quran holds a different place in the hearts and minds of Muslims than the Bible does in the hearts and minds of Christians. Both books are certainly sacred to their people, but their uses are different, their histories are different, and indeed their natures are different.










Chapter 14
Comparing the Quran and the Bible

When the Quran burning debate was over, my co-worker and I decided to make our official position on the matter public: We certainly supported free speech, but we concluded that burning the Quran was a poor idea. Aside from unnecessary provocation, we felt that a more effective use of free speech would be to discuss the teachings of the Quran rather than to burn its pages. But I had another reason not to support the practice: the place the Quran holds in the hearts of Muslims is beyond most Westerners’ estimation, and so is the crime of burning it. There is nothing on earth that Christians respect as much as Muslims do. This is not to say that Christians do not have great respect for the Bible, for they certainly do. But the traditional respect Muslims have for the Quran is almost incalculable. To understand this, we need to remember a point from the previous two chapters: for Muslims, the Quran is the eternal word of Allah himself. It is the closest thing to God incarnate.
For Christians, the eternal Word of Jehovah is Jesus. The Quran has the same place in Islam as Jesus has in the Christian faith. So let’s put it together: To understand the insult of burning the Quran, a Christian would have to imagine someone burning Jesus Christ. Burning the Bible is indeed insulting, but not nearly as insulting. Christians do not simply view the Bible as the eternal expression of the Triune God. Christians believe that God inspired men to write exactly what He wanted them to write at specific times in history. So Christians believe that the Bible is inspired by God but is not eternal. Once we begin to understand this fundamental difference, we begin to understand much more.
Since Muslims believe the Quran to be the eternal utterance of God, they do not believe that the Quran was written by men at all. It is the very word of God, written on a heavenly tablet, read from it by Gabriel and dictated to Muhammad. This is not inspiration in the Christian sense, but revelation: God revealed it to Muhammad piecemeal and dictated it through the angel Gabriel. Muhammad had nothing to do with shaping the text. He merely transmitted it. That is why, as a young American Muslim child who spoke Urdu at home with his Pakistani parents and English at school with his friends, I was taught that Arabic was literally the heavenly language, the best language. My mother was so insistent about teaching me to read Arabic that by the age of five, before I had learned English or Urdu, I had recited the entire Quran in Arabic. My mother was serious about the traditional Islamic view: if God’s eternal speech was written in Arabic, then Arabic must have been God’s chosen language.
This respect for the Arabic language underlies many Muslim practices. It is why Muslims recite prayers in Arabic, even if they have not yet learned the meaning of the words they recite. It is why Muslims hesitate to call non-Arabic versions of the Quran “translations,” because they believe there is a mystical value and hidden meaning in the Arabic language that cannot be translated. It is why some Muslims look for mathematical patterns in the Quran as evidence of divine authorship. It is also why Muslims are confident that the Quran is literary inimitable, because Allah Himself created it in a heavenly language.
Christians do not imagine that some deep mystical values have been lost, only interpretive concepts that can be explained through biblical study and interpretation.
By understanding the different natures of books for Muslims and Christians, we begin to understand the differences between the Quran and the Bible: the Islamic view of the Quran's immortality influences the place it holds in the hearts of Muslims, something that finds its Christian counterpart not in the Bible but in Jesus himself.
Composition of the Bible
Each religion’s view of the nature of its holy book is closely related to the date of its composition. Since the Quran is eternal, it was not composed at a specific time. Rather, it was revealed to mankind through Muhammad in parts over a period of twenty-three years. It is said that when someone asked Muhammad a question or encountered a problem, he would sweat and a recitation would come to him. The Syriac word for “recitation” is the Quran, and Muhammad delivered the Quran to his followers, usually in small packets of verses. Muslims then recite these fragments in their prayers and commit them to memory. All of these recitations were eventually collected into a book and organized into 114 surahs. A surah can contain verses that were revealed two decades apart. There may be several reasons for its current order, but given what is clearly discernible, the Quran can be described as having its longer chapters towards the beginning and its shorter chapters towards the end. In addition, Muslim scholars have attempted to distinguish which chapters of the Quran are revelations given to Muhammad during the early period of his prophethood, known as the Meccan verses, and which chapters are the last chapters of his prophethood, known as the Medinan verses.
In contrast, Christians have traditionally taught that God inspired specific men in history to write His words and used their experiences and language to convey His message. God masterfully used the words of chosen men to convey exactly what He wanted to say and has preserved that message through the millennia. The result is the Bible, a collection of sixty-six books written by about forty men over a period of fifteen hundred years.
The first thirty-nine books are called the Old Testament and the last twenty-seven are called the New Testament. Testament is almost synonymous with covenant and covenant, so the Old Testament was written during the time of God’s covenant with Moses, while the New Testament was written after God came to earth, with the advent of the new covenant initiated by Jesus and prophesied in Jeremiah 31:31-33.
Contents of the Bible
Since Muslims believe that the Quran was revealed through the medium of a single person, it makes sense that it has essentially only one genre and one point of view: Allah speaking to Muhammad. Although there are important exceptions, such as the first chapter, which is the speech of men, the Quran is more or less the same throughout its text.
On the other hand, since the Bible was written by many people over many years, it makes sense that there are many genres and perspectives. The Old Testament is often divided into three parts: the Law (Hebrew: Torah), the Prophets (Navi’im), and the Writings (Ketuvim). Jews refer to the text using an abbreviation of these three Hebrew words: Tanakh, which confirms the diversity of the Bible. For example, long sections of ceremonial law can be found in the Torah, complete books of history in the Prophets, and Hebrew poetry in the Writings. When we look at the New Testament, we see that it is divided into five historical books, twenty-one epistles, and one book of apocalyptic prophecy. Unlike the Quran, the Bible is very diverse in its literary genres and perspectives.
Seeing the New Testament as an appendix to the Tanakh may help Christians understand how Muslims view the Quran. It is the final revelation that confirms what came before it—in a sense, the “newest testament.” The Quran makes it clear that the Torah is indeed inspired scripture, as is the Gospel (5:68), but the Quran now comes as the final scripture for the guidance of mankind.
Oral or written methods of the Bible
It is also essential to note the difference between written and spoken texts. To understand this, consider the difference between writing a letter and having a transcript of a telephone conversation. Although the same person may express similar ideas, the way they write is very different from the way they speak, primarily because people have more time to consider what they need to say when writing and more time to consider what is being said when reading.
For these reasons, written communication is more complete and less repetitive than oral communication, with a set of accompanying features. Since Muslims teach that the Quran was revealed to Muhammad by Allah through the angel Gabriel, and that Muhammad then transmitted it orally to his scribes, it stands to reason that the Quran is primarily an oral text. Not only is it used more orally and recited aloud in prayer for people to hear and remember, but it is also read like a text of spoken communication. For example, instead of sharing complete stories, Allah usually says, “Remember the time when...” and begins in the middle of a story, assuming that the listener has already heard the story elsewhere. Otherwise, he starts at the beginning and stops in the middle of the story. This is why devout Muslims can often refer to the names of prophets, but not to complete life stories. Because of its oral nature, there are almost no complete stories in the Quran, with the exception of the story of Joseph. On the other hand, the Bible consists mainly of written texts. The stories and records are linear and complete. This is why devout Christians can share the birth-to-death narratives of not just Joseph, but dozens more: Jacob, Moses, David, Solomon, John the Baptist, and Jesus, among many others.
The manuscripts and final form of the Bible
An oral understanding of the Quran helps to understand the controversial phenomenon of abrogation. While Muhammad was alive, he made recitations that abrogated previous recitations. In other words, he told his followers that parts of the Quran that he had previously narrated were no longer to be recited as part of the Quran. This was met with resistance, as people asked him how the word of God could be abrogated. The answer is recorded in 2.106 of the Quran, which states that God can replace verses in His divine book because “He is over all things competent.” People accustomed to written texts may object to the concept of abrogation. How could God order the removal of parts of His eternal word? But the abrogation of the Quran makes more sense when we remember that the Quran was originally an oral text. People were not expected to tear pages out of their Qurans or cross out verses with a red pen. Rather, they were expected to simply stop reciting those passages in prayer and thus forget them. Although Muhammad’s revelations were considered inspired texts that he recited, long before the final form of the Quran, the books of the Bible were finalized before the church recognized them as scripture. At that point, there was no room for abrogation. Thus, the Bible, having a different method and a different history, was never abrogated.
The Sufficiency of the Bible
Although not all abrogated verses were removed from the Quranic text, Muslim scholars have classically taught that there are different types of abrogation, including abrogation of a verse without content and abrogation of content without a verse.
In other words, they teach that God willed that certain verses be recited but not acted upon, and that other verses be acted upon but not recited. For these reasons, Muslim scholars turn to the records of Muhammad’s life, the Hadith, for clarification. Furthermore, as we have seen, most Islamic practices actually originate from the Hadith, not the Quran.
This is why Muslims do not consider the Quran sufficient for Islamic practice, but rather require authentic hadith. Very few Muslims believe in the sufficiency of the Quran, and these “Quranic-only” Muslims are often considered heretical by mainstream Muslims. On the other hand, the Bible does not need supplementary texts to decipher its teachings or provide complementary Christian practices. It is sufficient and serves as the sole authority for Christian doctrine.
Bible interpretation
The abrogation of the Quran, its partiality, and its heavy reliance on hadith have traditionally been part of the reasons why the average Muslim does not engage in Quranic interpretation. What if a verse they are reading is abrogated and no longer applicable? What if the context of the verse is not clear, because the verses before or after it could be from completely different occasions? Furthermore, the Quran is in classical Arabic, a language that no one speaks natively anymore. For these and other reasons, Muslims generally defer to scholars and imams for the explanation of verses and texts. This is why the vast majority of Muslims themselves do not use the Quran directly for anything other than worship: memorization and recitation for prayer. The Bible, because of its written form, its sufficiency, and its translatability, is accessible enough for the average literate Christian to read and learn from directly. You do not need to be a scholar to interpret what the Bible says. Of course, it is helpful to know more context and the insights of scholars and theologians are valuable, but the nature of the biblical text allows devout Christians to go directly to it and learn from it.
The epistemological purpose of the Bible
Muslims certainly believe that the Quran serves primarily as a guide for humanity, but since they do not usually interpret it themselves, it is fair to classify this as an indirect purpose for the average Muslim. Rather, it is the mystical value of the Quran that is its primary purpose. This is illustrated in the average devout Muslim’s treatment of the Quran: reciting it in Arabic, even if the Muslim does not speak Arabic. In this case, Muslims are not seeking guidance, but blessing. So great is the trust of traditional Muslims in the mystical value of the Quran that it is the main reason for the authenticity of Islam. Muslims are certain that Islam is true because the Quran is so complete.
This epistemological use of the Quran is traditionally traced back to Muhammad himself, who pointed to the Quran as the basis for his claim to prophethood. “How could a man produce such a perfect book? It must be from God.” The primary use of the Quran, then, is to serve as a basis for why Muslims believe in Islam. On the other hand, as we have seen, the Bible is understandable to the average Christian who can access it in his own language and interpret it for himself. There are, of course, some who use the Bible for mystical purposes, but this is not its traditional or primary use. Similarly, there are some who believe in the message of Christianity because of the Bible, but this is not usually the reason people are Christians. Unlike the Quran, the primary use of the Bible is to serve as the basis for what Christians believe, not why they believe it.
And so, in discussing the differences between the Quran and the Bible, we have come full circle. The primary purpose of each scripture is related to its nature: the Quran is valuable in its mystical transcendence, while the Bible is valuable in its translatable and accessible guidance. There are many other ways in which the Quran and the Bible differ, but the ones we have just covered give us some insight into the common disagreements and misunderstandings between Muslims and Christians about the Bible.











Chapter 15
Questionable texts

At the end of the 20th century, one name dominated the conversation among Muslim Christians: Ahmed Deedat. Born in India in 1918, Deedat immigrated to South Africa as a young man and began his adult life as a furniture salesman. In that multicultural environment, Deedat encountered evangelicals who challenged him to think about the Bible, and in response, he began studying Islamic apologetics. By his mid-twenties, he was teaching apologetics and for the next forty years, he devoted his life to promoting Islam, publishing pamphlets and even founding a seminary. Despite the support of his friends and some significant financial donations, most of his early work was unsuccessful.
But everything changed for Deedat in the 1980s, when he began debating with prominent Christians such as Josh McDowell and Jimmy Swaggart. He presented challenges from a different Islamic perspective that were unusual for someone accustomed to debating skeptics and non-believers. The freshness of his arguments, coupled with his sharp rhetoric, often seemed to give him the upper hand over his opponents. His reputation grew almost overnight, and he was greeted with honors by the presidents of Muslim countries and rewarded for his services to Islam.
As Deedat's fame grew, so did his provocative rhetoric. In response to the Pope's positive stance on interfaith dialogue, Deedat challenged John Paul II to a debate. When the Pope refused, Deedat published a pamphlet entitled "His Holiness Is Secretly Working with Muslims." He also began to argue that the Bible was pornographic. Further provocative rhetoric during a Good Friday sermon in Sydney led to him being criticized by the Australian government and even banned from entering Singapore. Deedat suffered a massive stroke in 1996, at the height of his career. Among other neurological impairments, Deedat was no longer able to speak and was bedridden until his death in 2005. Some believed that God was punishing him for his remarks, and there were other rumors that Deedat had renounced Islam just before his death. However, in the Muslim world, both of these suggestions are vehemently denied. Deedat's fame continues to be legendary, even after his death. His oratorical style of argument has been taken up by the current figure of Islamic apology, Zakir Naik, who has a following of millions of Muslims around the world.
The technique that Nike uses, a technique that Deedat mastered and that many Muslims use today because of him, is to challenge the Bible while declaring the Quran to be infallible. Usually they see the Bible as full of contradictions, while they claim that the Quran has no contradictions.
The Bible and Contradictions
There is much to be said about this challenge. In principle, Christians agree that the Bible is inerrant and inspired, and will not contradict itself. But now that we have discussed the differences between the Quran and the Bible, it is perhaps clearer why this is a central element of Christian-Muslim dialogue.
First, the Quran is written in a uniform style, while the Bible is written in many genres. When someone accustomed to only one mode of speaking comes across texts like “God is love” in 1 John and “God hated Esau” in Psalms, they often forget to consider genres. From history to law to poetry and even an account of the love affair between Solomon and his bride, the Bible is a collection of very diverse books, and we should not read all books the same way. The genre of a book affects how we interpret it. For example, we should not read the book of Psalms like the book of Romans; the former is a book of poetry and should be read as a heartfelt sacred expression, while the latter is a treatise examining Christian doctrine and should be among the first foundations of a systematic theology.
Another example of poor interpretation is reading the Gospel of John in the same way as the Book of Revelation. Even though they were written by the same author, their genres are very different: the Gospel of John is historical and biographical, while the Book of Revelation is an apocalyptic book and is intended to be understood in prophetic terms. So, although we can be quite certain that Jesus literally walked in Galilee (e.g., John 1:43), reading about a dragon sweeping the stars in the same literal way is poor interpretation (Revelation 12:4)! Understanding genre is a fundamental part of biblical interpretation, yet Muslim apologists often raise the challenge of contradiction without regard to genre.
With this in mind, Christians often accuse the Quran of contradictions. For example, one website accuses the Quran of over 120 contradictions. Some examples: 6. 163 says Muhammad was the first believer, 7. 143 says Moses was the first, and 26. 40 says that the magicians were Pharaoh. 88.6 teaches that the only food in Hell will be thorns, while 69. 36 says it is pus, and 37. 66 says it is a devilish fruit. 7. 54, 10. 3, 11. 7, and 25.29 teach that Allah created the world in six days, while 41. 9-12 show a total of eight days. 2.29 says that Allah created the earth before the heavens and 79.30 says that He created the heavens before the earth. 96.2 says that Allah created man from blood, 25.54 says from water, 15.26 says from mud and 30.20 says from dust; 109.1-6 says that non-Muslims worship different gods, while 2.139 says that Jews and Christians worship the same God as Muslims. 4.48 says that Allah does not forgive idolatry and 4.153 shows Him forgiving idolatry. 4.78 says that all blessings and calamities are from Allah, while 4.79, the very next verse, says that blessings are from Allah and calamities are from those who suffer them. These are just a few of the hundreds of alleged contradictions in the Quran. Even though the contradictions of the Quran are far more devastating to Islam than the contradictions of the Bible are to Christianity, I find these arguments about contradictions futile and bordering on the utopian. I prefer to engage in constructive dialogue with any text that doubts and debates the merits of what they claim, rather than reading the texts in a hostile manner and accusing them of contradictions.
How do you deal with this verse?
Along the same lines of interpretation, Christians often approach their Muslim friends and ask them how they interpret certain verses of the Quran. For example, Muslims in the West often say that Islam is a religion of peace, which Christians ask how they deal with verses like 9:111, which says: “Allah has purchased from the believers their lives and their possessions in return for which they will have Paradise.” Muslims often respond at this point that they are not sure how to handle it, but this does not change their view of Islam as a religion of peace. Christians may be disappointed by the apparent meaning of a verse, but they should remember that Muslims generally do not interpret the Quran themselves. And by asking for an interpretation of a verse, they may be asking a Muslim to do something they have not done before. Muslims receive such guidance and interpretations from their Imams, and a Christian should not be surprised to hear the response, “Don’t ask me, I’m not a scholar!” What might be more helpful for a Christian who wants to point out such verses in the Quran to a Muslim friend is to find a scholar in that Muslim’s line of authority and see if that scholar’s interpretation says the same thing. If so, present the verse with the scholar’s judgment and continue the conversation from there.
The Bible has been corrupted.
Finally, we come to the most common Muslim accusation against the Bible: that its text has changed over time. It should also now be clear why Muslims accuse the Bible of being changed: because the Quran says that the Bible teaches the same thing that the Torah and the Gospel confirm, but the Bible’s teachings are clearly different. Along the same lines, the Quran teaches that Muhammad was prophesied in the Bible, but it seems that there was no such prophecy. The interpretation of what the Quran says about the Bible is a matter of debate. There are several passages in the Quran that Muslims use to teach that the Bible has changed, but closer examination seems to show that these verses are actually teaching that Christians and Jews abandoned their teachings because they were lying—not that the words of the Bible themselves have been corrupted. The general meaning of the Quran seems clear: Jews and Christians still had their holy texts at the time of Muhammad and could follow the straight path by reading them. However, Muslims usually accuse the Bible of significant changes. When making this criticism, a small minority of Muslims consider minor changes to the Bible to be significant in their view. To understand this, we must again look at it from an Islamic perspective. Muslims believe that because of the mystical nature of the Quran, the Quran must be preserved completely, letter by letter. But a changed letter is not a problem for Christians, because Christians are concerned with preserving the meaning of the Bible, and the same thing can be expressed in different ways in Greek without changing the meaning. For example, the words "Jesus loves Peter" can be written in sixteen different ways in Greek. The letters can be changed in sixteen different ways, without affecting the meaning.
However, what most Muslims think of when they say the Bible is corrupted is the removal or insertion of New Testament teachings, deliberate changes by the ruling powers. This kind of corruption of the Bible text simply has never happened and could never happen. For example, let’s consider a book of the Bible called 1 Peter. When the disciple Peter wrote this letter, he sent it to its recipients. They copied it and sent copies to churches in other cities. Those churches copied it and sent it to other churches. Now let’s imagine that the church to which Peter sent it had five copies made, and to each church they sent one copy to make five more. Even at this early stage of the biography, there are thirty-one copies. If someone wanted to effectively change the text, they would have to collect all thirty-one copies. But no one had the means to do that. No one had the authority to rule over the entire Christian world until the fourth century, three hundred years after Jesus. At that time, there were thousands of copies of the Bible, and even if someone had the authority over them, they did not have the practical ability to collect them all. Even if someone had the ability to collect all the texts and edit them, there would certainly have been a record of such a massive call. It is almost impossible to imagine any Christian calmly handing over the Bible to be changed without any sign of resistance or complaint. So the only way the Bible could have been corrupted on such a large scale is if someone in early Christian history had the authority and power to collect all the texts, destroy them, and issue official copies, thereby causing complaints and resistance. Yet such a person or record of events never existed. Interestingly, such a person and such a record exist in the early history of the Quran.




Chapter 16
The first burning of the Quran

Muhammad's third successor, Caliph Uthman, held authority over the entire Muslim community from approximately 644 to 655 AD. Earlier in his time, differing recitations of the Quran had caused discord among Muslims, and Uthman decided to do something before hostilities spread.
About twenty years after Muhammad’s death, the leader of the Islamic empire collected all the manuscripts of the Quran, destroyed them in a fire, and published an official, standardized version. When this happened, Muhammad’s faithful companions strongly resisted the collection of their texts, and the record of their opposition survives today. The Bible cannot therefore be changed because in early Christian history there was no central control over it, and thus it was never collected or edited. But certainly in early Muslim history there was such control over the Quran, and there was a precise time for its collection and editing. The history of Islam makes no attempt to hide the official burning of all the Qurans and the publication of an official, standardized version. Apart from ignorance or bigotry, I am not sure how anyone can continue to accuse the Bible of corruption when the Quran is under constant surveillance. In fact, the history of the Quran was one of the factors that kept me from accusing the Bible of corruption when I was a Muslim. Because of Uthman's control over the Quran, there is no basis for accusing the Bible of corruption on a large scale without condemning the Quran.
Bible Diversity
In addition to its more pristine textual history, the diversity of the Bible is a strength. It shows God’s love for diversity. There is no superior language, no superior people, no superior writing style. Rather, God intends for people to learn from the books of history, from the law, from poetry, from proverbs, from apocalyptic literature, and so on. He can teach through a fisherman like Peter, through a theologian like Paul, through a statesman like Moses, through a queen like Esther, and through his own incarnation. There is beauty and strength in diversity, and the Bible reflects this.
More than anything else, to accept the Quran, one must first accept Muhammad, because he is the only one who received Quranic verses from Gabriel. On the other hand, entire communities testified to the inspiration of the Bible, and they did not come from the mouth of one person.
The Bible speaks to the human heart.
As a Muslim, despite having ample evidence to trust the Bible and having learned about Uthman’s praise of the Quran, the ultimate turning point for me was when I asked God Himself to guide me. At the end of my rope, utterly distraught and tearful, I asked God, whether it was God or Jesus, to guide me through His Holy Book. I needed His comfort, and I was turning to Him. I began by opening the Quran. This was the first time I had opened the Quran for personal guidance, rather than reciting a memorized portion of the Quran or asking an imam for help. As I looked through its pages, I realized that there was not a single passage in it that would comfort me while I was in pain. While there were certainly verses that promised me that God would reward me for doing the right thing, there was nothing that said God loved me as I was or sought my comfort despite my failures.
On the other hand, the Bible was filled with God’s peace and love for me. God spoke to me through Matthew 5:4, which says, “Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted.” There are no conditions here, no performance requirements. God gives comfort to those who mourn. Verse 6 reinforces this: “Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they will be filled.” Blessed are the righteous, but blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. The Bible speaks to me of God’s love as if it were written for someone like me, someone who is suffering and who only seeks God.
He spoke to me. Not to Muhammad, not to seventh-century Arabic speakers, but to me. And that is the power of the Word of God – it goes through the ages and resonates with all of His people. There is no word like the Word of God.




Part 5
Jihad or Crusades?
Two different holy wars








Chapter 17
The First Crusade

In Clermont, France, on November 27, 1095, Pope Urban II issued the First Crusade. He urged Christians to travel from Western Europe to the Middle East, where Muslims had lived for more than 450 years, to fight the “infidels” and “barbarians,” “a cursed race utterly alien to God.” He encouraged not only knights but even mercenaries and robbers to “gain eternal reward” by joining the effort to “exterminate that vile race from the lands.” Many were moved by the pope’s call to arms, and Europeans soon left to carry the cross east to fight them. In the spring of 1096, an army of crusaders led by Count Emiko advanced through the Rhineland, where Jewish moneylenders were believed to hold storehouses of wealth. Emiko's army moved from city to city, slaughtering innocent Jews as "enemies of Christ" and plundering their wealth to finance the Crusade. His army killed thousands of Jews and forced others to convert or suffer a similar fate. As the Crusaders continued on their way to the Holy Land, their attacks on various cities delayed their arrival in Jerusalem until June 1099. After several days of siege, the Crusaders finally managed to overcome the city's defenses and make their attempt. A contemporary account, "The Acts of the Franks," describes the massacre from the perspective of a soldier. As soon as one of the knights scaled the ramparts, all the city's defenders quickly fled over the walls and through the city. Our men pursued and killed as far as the Temple of Solomon, and there was such slaughter that our men were ankle-deep in the blood of the enemy... Our pilgrims, entering the city, pursued and killed the Saracens as far as the Temple of Solomon. The Saracens gathered there and resisted fiercely all day, so that the whole temple flowed with their blood. Finally the pagans were defeated, and our men captured many men and women in the temple and killed them or kept them alive as they saw fit... Then the Crusaders dispersed through the city and seized gold and silver, horses and mules, and houses full of all kinds of goods. After that, our men went with joy and tears of joy to the tomb of our Savior Jesus, and there they paid their debt to him. Shortly after this bloody conquest, the Crusader lords wrote a letter to the Pope, describing their journey and culminating in a description of how the Muslims suffered at their hands. “If you want to know what they did to the enemy they found there, know that in the Porch of Solomon and in his temple our men rode in Saracen blood up to the knees of their horses.” History, and the intervening nine hundred years, do nothing to erase the vivid images of the First Crusade from the collective memory of modern Muslims.
American Muslims, the Crusades, and Jihad
I can’t speak for all Muslim Americans, but my family is very patriotic. My father served faithfully in the United States Navy for twenty-four years, starting as a seaman and retiring in 2000 as a lieutenant commander. It was he who taught me, while I visited his naval base in Groton, Connecticut, to put my hand over my heart during the singing of the national anthem. My mother, among other things, impressed upon me the importance of voting. On presidential election day, I learned that my parents were voting for opposing candidates. When I suggested to my mother that they both stay home that night because their votes would be nullified, she replied, “Son, it’s our duty to vote.” During those years, we often traveled to New York City for vacations, since it was two hours away from our home. My sister developed a deep love for the city. His eyes always widened as he gazed at the skyscrapers, and he never wanted to leave Manhattan. During his teenage years, the most prominent decoration in his room was a large, framed picture of the New York City skyline on his wall. It was still there on September 11, 2001, when our world came crashing down around us. I am convinced that the attack on the World Trade Center hit patriotic American Muslims harder than the average citizen. We, along with the rest of the nation, were oblivious to the deaths of our fellow Americans, but at the same time we were faced with an identity crisis. Terrorists had killed our fellow Americans in the name of our God. While we struggled to come to terms with these conflicting realities, most Americans had no ambivalence, for they could simply denounce Islam. We were forced to kind of stand up for our faith and at the same time stand up for our country, all this given the potential that people would demonize not only Islam, but us Muslims as well.
Fortunately, prominent Americans stood up for Muslims, not least former President Bill Clinton. In a speech in Washington, D.C., less than two months after the attack, Clinton said: “In the first Crusade, when the Christian soldiers took Jerusalem, they… killed every woman and child who was Muslim on the Temple Mount. Contemporaneous descriptions of this event describe soldiers walking up to their knees in blood on the Temple Mount, a holy site for Christians. I can tell you that story is still told in the Middle East today, and we are still paying the price for it.
President Clinton, always popular with our Muslim community, insisted to his audience that Christians had committed wanton violence in the name of their God. This sentiment resonated with Muslims more than Clinton had imagined, because it fit with the narrative we had inherited in the Muslim community: that Islam had spread peacefully after the advent of Muhammad, only to be opposed by violent Crusaders in the East and the Spanish Inquisition in the West. Christians were the aggressors and Muslims were the victims. Jihad, as we had been taught, was either spiritual or defensive.
With Clinton’s admission, others seemed to agree. Most Americans I knew looked back on the Crusades with a sense of shame. Georgetown University scholar John Esposito described the Crusades as the beginning of hostilities between Muslims and Christians: “Five centuries of peaceful coexistence preceded by political events and an imperial-papal power play that led to a series of centuries of so-called holy wars that pitted Christianity against Islam and left a lasting legacy of misunderstanding and distrust.” Ridley Scott, with a similar understanding, released a film in 2005 called Kingdom of Heaven, which depicted Christians as aggressors against civilized Muslims who simply wanted peaceful coexistence. At the time, it seemed to me that jihad had been vindicated even in the eyes of the West, and that no one could point a finger at Islam given the crimes of the Crusades.
However, I was convinced that no one should judge a religion by its followers. That is why, when I considered the truth of Christianity and Islam, I did not let the mujahideen – those who wage jihad – influence my view of Islam, and I did not let the crusaders influence my view of Christianity. In my mind, there were only two people whose behavior mattered: Muhammad and Jesus. I was convinced that neither the crusaders nor the mujahideen had anything to do with the core teachings of their religions. But as I came to realize, that was a step too far.
Crusades in the context of the text
Years after I left Islam, I expressed my dismay at Christians who named themselves after Christ but did not try to live by his principles when I spoke to colleagues. When I used the Crusades as an example of such hypocrisy, a good friend challenged me with a very simple question: “Nabil, have you ever researched the history of the Crusades?” I was embarrassed to admit that I had not. I simply assumed that everyone agreed that the Crusades were a terrible blot on the history of Christianity. Without overlooking the atrocities, my colleague suggested that I take a fresh look at the Crusades so that I could gain a full understanding. When I began to research, it was immediately clear that neither side had clean hands. In 1268, the Muslim sultan Baybars I, known as the Lion of Egypt, taunted the Christian ruler whose city had just been conquered in his absence. Baybars vividly describes what Count Bohemond VI would have done if he had been in Antioch:
Death... came from every side and every way among the besieged: we killed all those whom you appointed to guard the city or defend its entrances. If you trampled your knights under the hooves of horses, gave up your provinces to plunder, divided your wealth with all your might, gave the wives of your subjects to be sold in the market. If you saw the altars and crosses overturned, the pages of the Bible torn and thrown to the wind, and the tombs of your ancestors desecrated. If you saw your enemies, the Muslims, trampling the tent and burning the monks and priests and you alive in the sanctuary. In short, if you saw your palaces surrendered to the flames, the dead devoured by the fire of this world, the churches of St. Paul and St. Peter utterly destroyed, you would certainly cry out: By Derek, I wish I were dust!
According to the records, Baybars burned Antioch and emptied it of its inhabitants. Fourteen thousand Christians were killed and one hundred thousand were enslaved. This is a crime on par with the massacre of the First Crusade in Jerusalem.
I didn’t expect this, because the narrative I had always heard was that the Crusaders were the only ones who committed the atrocities, not the Muslims. It occurred to me that the only way to prove my inherited narrative was to make the massacre a belated reprisal for what the Crusaders had done in 1099, so I began to study the context of the battles, including the First Crusade. It was then that I realized that the narrative I had inherited was woefully inaccurate.
Just a few years before Pope Urban II called the First Crusade, the Seljuk Turks had conquered Nicaea, the same city where Constantine had convened the First Council of the Church 750 years earlier. The Seljuk Turks were Sunni Muslims and had taken Nicaea from the Byzantine emperor, who was a Christian. It was he, the Byzantine emperor, who asked Pope Urban II for help in defending his lands at the Council of Piacenza in 1095. In other words, the Muslims were actively attacking and conquering Christians, and the First Crusade was a defensive effort.
But what I later learned was even more shocking: The Seljuk army consisted of warriors called Mamluks, slave children who were eventually trained to become professional young warriors. These slave warriors were first used by Muslim caliphs in the ninth century and were ubiquitous in Islamic lands for a thousand years afterward. According to one scholar, sixteen of the seventeen major Muslim dynasties in history systematically used slave warriors. These slave boys were often captured from places like Egypt, where Christian lands had been conquered by Muslims. This meant that Muslim rulers captured Christian boys and turned them into slave warriors to fight against other Christians. Records show that Muslims had been conquering Egyptian Christians and taking their children from the very beginning of Islam. Amr ibn al-Aas, one of Muhammad's companions, savagely raided northern Egypt in 640 AD, just eight years after Muhammad's death.
John of Nicea, a bishop in the Nile Delta, records one of these conquests:
"[When] they had broken down the walls of the city with great difficulty and effort, they immediately took control of it and put thousands of its inhabitants and soldiers to the sword, and they took a great deal of booty, and they took the women and children captive, dividing them among themselves, and destroyed that city."
Reading the Chronicles of John, I realized that this was one of Amr's more generous conquests. He records the capture of Nacius, a city left defenseless when his soldiers fled the fleeing Muslim army.
John tells us how Amr treated the defenseless Christians: “Amr and the Muslim army... entered Nekeus and took it.
Finding no soldiers, they put to the sword all the men, women, and infants they found in the cemeteries and churches.
They showed no mercy to anyone. After conquering this city, they marched to other regions and plundered them, putting to the sword everything they found... Let us stop now, because it is impossible to recount the sins that the Muslims committed after the capture of the island of Naxios.
This was just one of many massacres recorded in the writings of Bishop Amr ibn al-As, a friend of Muhammad. History records similar Muslim raids on Christian lands from the mid-600s to 1095 and beyond. By the time the Byzantine emperor appealed to the Pope for help, two-thirds of Christendom had fallen to the Muslims.
That is why, says Crusades scholar Thomas Madden, “The Crusades were in every sense a defensive war. They were the West’s belated response to the Muslim conquest of two-thirds of Christendom.”
This becomes abundantly clear when we read the full text of Pope Urban II's appeal to European Christians for the First Crusade:
Your brothers who live in the East urgently need your help and you must hasten to help them. They have often been promised. For as most of you have heard, the Turks and Arabs have attacked them... and have overcome them in seven wars. They have killed and captured many and destroyed churches and devastated the empire. If you allow them to continue like this for a while without punishment, the faithful of God will be attacked by them much more. Therefore I, or rather God, beg you as heralds of Christ to publish this everywhere and persuade all people of every rank and degree, infantry and knight, poor and rich, to quickly help those Christians and destroy that vile race from the land of our friends.
The context is also clearer. The Pope ordered that the Jews not be massacred, and since some of the Crusaders were massacring Jews in the Rhineland, other Christians protested and did their best to protect them.
Archbishop Rothard of Mainz attempted to shelter the Jews in his personal residence until he was overpowered by Count Emiko. The bishops of Speyer and Worms likewise tried to protect the Jews as best they could. The crusaders who killed the Jews ignored their Christian leaders and brothers, and their actions should not be attributed to the whole of Christendom.
Revisiting the narrative of the Crusades
This is at least one reason why not all Christians in the First Crusade should be painted with the same brush. Historical understanding requires a more nuanced approach, and it becomes even clearer when we begin to analyze the Crusades from a different perspective. For example, we should not see the Crusades simply as “Christians versus Muslims” or vice versa. Christians and Muslims were too divided for such a unified view. Christians were not united among themselves, which is why it took hundreds of years for Western Christians to finally come to the aid of Byzantine Christians. Muslims were even less united, which is a major reason why the Crusaders were able to conquer Jerusalem in 1099. The Seljuk sultan had just died in 1092, and several family members were competing for power. The Fatimid dynasty, a Shiite caliphate based in Egypt, took advantage of this internal division to wrest Jerusalem from the Seljuk Empire in 1098, just a year before the Crusades. The Fatimids themselves had just emerged from a civil war and were still reeling from the assassination of the caliph and his grand vizier in 1094. All of these factors combined to make the fiercely divided Muslim lands vulnerable to attack. This is why, says Crusade scholar Jonathan Riley Smith, “Although none of the crusaders knew it, they were moving toward a door that had been wide open.” The medieval historian Christopher Tyreman tells us: “The appearance of the Western armies in the First Crusade in 1097-8 merely added another foreign military presence to a region already crowded with competing external laws. Among many, in fact, they were among the least relevant, having essentially been defeated when Saladin recaptured Jerusalem in 1187. Perhaps this is why Muslims more or less forgot about the Crusades by the end of the nineteenth century. According to Riley Smith, “Muslims looked upon the Crusades with indifference and complacency. In their eyes, they were the absolute victors… The first history of the Crusades in Arabic, which appeared in 1865, was a Christian history. Christians had to invent an Arabic word for Crusades, because Muslims apparently did not think of them until the early twentieth century. Given the historical facts, the common Muslim view of the Crusades—the view I have inherited—is a view. The modern invention of the narrative of an aggressive crusade against peaceful Muslims, along with the themes of Ridley Scott’s “Kingdom of Heaven” and John Esposito’s “Five Centuries of Peaceful Coexistence,” seems to have fanciful aspects based on motives other than history. The fact is that the Crusades were launched to defend the Byzantine Empire after two-thirds of the Christian world had been conquered by centuries of Muslim attacks. Muslims understood this and held no grudge against the Crusaders until modern times, when post-colonial narratives became prevalent.
Learning from Jihad and the Crusades
Given the facts, did the Crusaders commit unjustifiable crimes? Absolutely. Did the Mujahideen commit unjustifiable crimes? Absolutely. I am in no way trying to excuse those who committed these crimes. However, I do not think that a religion should be judged by some of its followers. The actions of some Christians do not necessarily say anything about Christianity, and the actions of some Muslims do not necessarily say anything about Islam. As I concluded when I was still a Muslim, what matters is the teachings of Jesus and the teachings of Muhammad. But to say that neither the Crusaders nor the Mujahideen had anything to do with their religions is a step too far. As it turns out, both Jesus and Muhammad had a lot to say about violence, and the Crusaders and the Mujahideen listened.





Chapter 18
Comparing the traditions of the founders

In 2009, David Wood and I received invitations to the annual conference of the Islamic Association of North America, themed “Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness,” held over the Fourth of July weekend in Washington, D.C. We registered to attend, eager to hear the messages and mingle with the Muslim attendees. We saw lectures on the history of the Quran and the status of women in Islam, met with respected Muslim scholars, and even interviewed one of the conference organizers. Although we thought there was a lot of misinformation, there is no doubt that the organizers and speakers were very hospitable and sincere about their messages. Many of my childhood Muslim friends and acquaintances were at the conference, and I made some awkward attempts to reconnect with them. Two of these friends, both former Ahmadiyya converts to Sunni Islam, agreed to join David and me for dinner after the conference. Talking about halal Chinese food, the four of us discussed a wide range of topics, but what sticks in my mind is our conversation about apostasy. I asked one of my friends, “What do you think about the punishment for leaving Islam?” I was curious, because my friend, a former Ahmadi, came from the most peaceful sect of Islam, while the punishment for apostasy among Sunni Muslims is a violent death. “There’s no question about it,” he began. “The Prophet (peace be upon him) made it abundantly clear that apostates should be killed for leaving Islam.” His serious tone showed no sign of ambivalence. “I agree that he did, but never mind! You really can’t think that people should be killed for their beliefs? I mean, it’s the 21st century. People believe in freedom of worship.” My friend didn’t budge. “Leaving other religions is fine, but people should be killed for leaving Islam. Yes, here in America there is freedom of worship. Since it is illegal to kill apostates, American Muslims are bound by the laws of the land and cannot kill former Muslims. But in Muslim countries, apostates can and should be killed. I couldn’t believe my friend. I had to challenge him a little more to see how serious he was. “So if we were in a Muslim country right now, would you kill me?” Indeed, without malice or sarcasm, he replied, “Yes, I would kill you right now. That is the order of the Prophet.” A silence reigned at the table as everyone waited for my answer. “Well then, thank God we are not in a Muslim country! May God protect America!” I laughed. The obvious attempt at humor moved the conversation forward, but his words stuck in my mind.
Peaceful Muslims, apostasy, and the example of Muhammad
The contrast between my friend’s views and the summit’s theme was stark. All weekend the summit had been trying to prove that Islam was compatible with American values and Western freedoms, but here was a passionate young Muslim who said that American law was the only thing that would stop him from killing me for my beliefs. How are we to understand the discrepancy? My friend did what Muslims have traditionally done: he looked to Muhammad for Sharia law. The hadiths are full of references to Muhammad killing apostates and ordering their killing. So, for a Muslim who follows Muhammad as his role model, there is little question: apostates must be killed. The evidence is so strong that all major schools of Islam, Sunni and Shia, teach the law of apostasy, and disagree only on the details and conditions. Of course, killing people for their beliefs is an assault on Western moral sensibilities, including the sensibilities of many Muslims in the West. So in adapting their understanding of Islam to Western moral concepts, they often argue that Islam could never teach such a thing. Unfortunately, quite the opposite is true: Islam has always been like this. From a historical perspective, the denial of the punishment for apostasy is a modern phenomenon, as is the insistence on a largely peaceful Islam. Some Muslims point out that the Quran does not command the killing of apostates, and they are certainly correct. But Islam is not a biblical faith. It has always used the hadith to supplement the Quran. Anyone who prays the five daily prayers must confess this, because not only are the words for the prayers not mentioned in the Quran, but even the number of daily prayers is not mentioned. The Quran mentions only three daily prayers and does not specify the words or modes for any of them. Although there are legal “Quranic-only” Muslims, they have always been an extreme minority in Islam. Most Muslims who argue against the law of apostasy using a purely Quranic approach use an argument that, if consistently applied, would radically alter their Islamic practice. In this vein, some peace-loving Muslims argue against the law of apostasy by citing Quranic verses such as 2.256, which states: “There is no compulsion in religion.” However, in saying this, they also deny the example of Muhammad. Muhammad did not interpret that verse in that way, as his practice in the hadith repeatedly shows. This is why classically, Muslim theologians have listed 256.2 among the abrogated verses we discussed in the previous chapter. For example, Ibn Kathir says that 256.2 was abrogated with 29.9, which tells Muslims to fight Jews and Christians. Prominent Muslim scholars have vigorously defended these traditional interpretations throughout the twentieth century.
Of course, I hope that peaceful Muslims will gain a majority in the global Muslim community and change the Islamic practice in their favor. Most Muslims who advocate a peaceful practice of Islam, far from being insincere, truly believe that Islam is a religion of peace. In my mosque, that was exactly what we were taught and repeated to others. But to follow peaceful Islam, one must ignore or reject a vast portion of the traditions of Muhammad’s life, as well as almost the entire history of Islamic jurisprudence. My friend in DC used to be part of the same peaceful mosque my family attended and was taught by the same peaceful imams. Eventually, he left that version of Islam and embraced a more violent version in the name of following Muhammad’s true teachings. Muslims who consistently follow the record of Muhammad’s life believe in an Islam that does not meet Western notions of peace. These are the majority of Muslims throughout history.
Muhammad and Jihad
The Economist magazine published an article entitled “Continuing History” on August 22, 2015. The first image in the article is horrifying: dozens of burqa-clad Nigerian teenage girls abducted from their school in Chibok by Boko Haram. The article then goes on to discuss the thousands of Yazidi women captured by ISIS, the Islamic State. In Dabiq, ISIS’s professional magazine, ISIS argues that these women are war booty and that sexual slavery is a practice sanctioned by the Quran. Does Islam permit sexual slavery? We must do what my friend in Washington did, and Muslims have always done, to answer questions like these: turn to the hadith. When we look at the life of Muhammad, we find numerous narrations of Muhammad not only condoning sexual slavery but also encouraging Muslims who were hesitant to use their newly captured women for sex, whether they were pregnant or because their husbands were still alive, according to the hadith. The narrations state that the reason 4.24 of the Quran was revealed was so that men would not hesitate to have sex with captured women whose husbands were still alive. These narrations of Muhammad’s life influenced Muslims throughout the classical era of Islam and shaped their laws of war. These are the narrations that ISIS now refers to. Of course, many Muslims disagree with ISIS’s actions, but their reasons are illuminating. An open letter sent to ISIS by 140 Muslim scholars states: “After a century of Muslim consensus on the prohibition of slavery, you have violated this. You have chosen women as concubines.” They argue that Muhammad was in favor of freeing slaves, which may be very true, but they do not go so far as to say that Muhammad did not condone sexual slavery. That is not what the record shows, and ISIS does. Unfortunately for these 140 Muslim scholars and for the rest of the world, ISIS is interested not in the consensus of Muslim scholars a hundred years ago, but in the example of Muhammad in the seventh century. ISIS is taking not only women but also boys. The world was recently horrified by reports that captured boys were forced to strip and were subject to execution if they had pubic hair. But again, this was based on Muhammad’s treatment of the Qurayzah Jews. Muhammad had ordered that children were not to be killed in battle except in night raids. So when a group of people, such as the Qurayza Jews, were taken captive, the boys were separated from the men when they had pubic hair, and the men were executed. ISIS simply took this narrative from the life of Muhammad and applied it to them. Of course, this Muhammadan contribution also explains why the Seljuk Turks and almost all other Muslim dynasties had no qualms about capturing boys and enslaving them to become warriors. Muhammad himself enslaved Jewish boys, perhaps an act of mercy given the fact that their fathers were all beheaded that day. So jihad, in its classical practice and in those manifestations that are considered “Islamic” or “radical” today, is often an attempt to simply follow Muhammad. Those who argue for more peaceful practices of Islam must do one of three things: deny the example of Muhammad’s life altogether, as Muslims who accept only the Quran do. Declare Muhammad's teachings extinct, as 140 Muslim scholars have done; or reject the parts of Muhammad's life that have been recorded in history, as the average Muslim would.
Jesus and the Crusades
Following Jesus leads to a very different understanding of war. Jesus never led an army. Far from it, he never even endorsed violence. When it comes to Jesus’ most explicit command on war, his message is unmistakable: “Put up your sword, for all who draw the sword will perish by the sword” (Matthew 26:52). Even in matters of self-defense, his teaching is so utterly peaceful that it seems to come from another world: “But I tell you, do not resist an evil person. But whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn to him the other also. And whoever wants to sue you and take your coat, let him have your cloak as well. And whoever forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles” (Matthew 5:39-41). This is in line with the eschatological way in which Jesus told his followers to treat their enemies: “But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you” (Matthew 5:44). Jesus’ teachings were so peaceful that they posed a problem for early Christians, who saw themselves as obligated to defend the oppressed with violence. Since Jesus clearly did not authorize war, such Christians developed an elaborate concept of “just war,” beginning with Augustine in the early fifth century. By describing the harsh conditions of war, Augustine argued that war could be within the will of God but was still a necessary evil and something that required repentance. When the Crusades began, Christians relied on Augustine’s arguments and other similar views to justify their defense of Byzantium, initially treating their wars as a necessary evil to combat a greater evil. However, it was during the Crusades that holy war was viewed positively, as a means of forgiveness. In this, they went far beyond Augustine. The idea gained popularity, as one contemporary historian wrote: “God has brought about holy wars in our time, so that the order of knights and the multitudes that follow them… might find a new way to obtain salvation.” Thus, until the Crusades, more than a thousand years after Jesus Christ, Christians saw holy war as a positive endeavor that actually forgave the sins of the crusaders, rather than a sin that required repentance.
Comparing Muhammad and Jesus on Violence
In contrast, it was Muhammad himself who taught that fighting in jihad was holy and good. According to the hadith, Muhammad taught Muslims that attacking the Christian city of Constantinople would absolve the fighters of their sins: “The first army of my followers to attack the city of Caesar will have their sins forgiven.” Jihad was so good in Muhammad’s eyes that there is nothing like it in this world. When a man asked him if there was any act in this world as good as jihad, Muhammad replied: “I know of no such act.” Timeline: Jesus’s outspoken words against violence led to more than three hundred years of non-resistance among Christians, and then Augustine’s arguments led to six hundred years of war as a justifiable evil. Until Christians were a thousand years removed from Jesus, they believed that holy war could absolve sin, while Muhammad himself taught Muslims that fighting in jihad could absolve sin, and was, in fact, the best thing in the world. There is much more that could be said about jihad and the Crusades, but one thing is certain: Jesus never endorsed violence and absolutely did not endorse anything like the Crusades, while Muhammad engaged in jihad as the greatest thing a Muslim could do. Violent jihad is the result of a strict adherence to the life and teachings of Muhammad, while strict adherence to the life and teachings of Jesus leads to pacifism and selfless love for enemies.












Chapter 19
Questioning Christian peace

A week after David Wood and I went to the ISNA National Conference in 2009, we traveled to London to engage Muslims in public debate and discussion. Of the twenty or so public debates I have attended, my favorite was the one David and I conducted together, where we discussed two former Christians who had converted to Islam. The topic was “Is Islam a religion of peace?” And in addition to the interesting topic, the two-on-two nature of the debate kept the interaction fast-paced and engaging. One audience member commented after the debate that it was “more exciting than football,” and I agree. During the debate, it became clear that the two Muslim debaters were arguing, to some extent, that Islam is peaceful when juxtaposed with a particular view of Christian doctrine. Focusing on Jesus’ words, such as: “Do not think that I have come to bring peace on earth. I have not come to bring peace, but a sword” (Matthew 10:34), they argued, and so has Christianity, and so has Islam. If Christianity is peaceful, even though violence is permitted, then Islam can be peaceful. To be fair, Augustine and Christians after him did justify war to some extent by asking questions about verses like this. But my answer to Augustine is the same as the one we gave to Muslim debaters: “What is Jesus really saying in this verse? We need to read the context.” In the context, it is indisputably clear that Jesus is not talking about war, but about division within families: “Do not think that I came to bring peace on earth. I did not come to bring peace, but a sword. For I came to set a man at variance with his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. “A man’s enemies will be those of his own household.” (verses 34-36). This is not about war. This is a common misunderstanding I encounter among Muslims I speak to: they challenge Jesus’ peaceful teachings by taking his words out of context. As we saw in Part Four, this makes sense given the Quran’s interpretation and its relative lack of emphasis on context. But in biblical interpretation, the context of a passage is a crucial element in determining its meaning. When Jesus says he has come to bring a sword, he tells us exactly what he means: his coming will divide families. A closer study of Jesus’ words shows that the “sword” Jesus refers to is not a romafaya, a type of sword used only for war. The sword Jesus brings with him is a machair. Like a knife, a machaira is a long knife or a short sword designed as a multipurpose tool, such as cutting meat or gutting fish. Also like a ghacho, a machaira can be used for fighting, but that is not its only or primary purpose. Its primary purpose is to cause division, and here Jesus says that he came as a machaira to divide families. This explanation helps us understand another commonly misunderstood passage. In Luke 22:35-38, Jesus tells his disciples to take machaira swords with them on their journey. Ancient Christians who advocated just war asked the same question that many modern Muslims ask today: “Why would Jesus tell his disciples to bring swords or at least to defend themselves?” Now that we know what a machaira is, the answer is simple: He was telling them to be prepared for a long journey and to take the right tools with them. The context is useful again: Jesus gives them a list of travel accessories (money belt, bag, and sandals) and a sword appears on that list. Jesus told his disciples to make it clear that two swords would be enough. If he were envisioning a battle, two swords would never be enough among that number. But if they are considered travel tools, they are abundant. Another verse that can be confusing if overlooked is Luke 19:27, where Jesus says, “But those enemies of mine who did not want me to reign over them bring here and slay them in front of me.” Reading the entire text clarifies the statement. Jesus is telling a parable and sharing a teaching about a hypothetical king. He does not actually want his enemies brought before him and slain. Throughout Luke’s Gospel, Jesus tells many parables, including those about a wicked judge who ignores a woman (Luke 18), a farmer who sows seed (Luke 8), a vineyard owner who orders a tree to be cut down (Luke 13), and a woman who searches for a lost coin (Luke 15). These parables do not mean that Jesus himself is a wicked judge who ignores women, a farmer who sows seed, a vineyard owner who orders the trees to be cut down, or a woman who searches for a coin. Similarly, his parable in Luke 19:27 does not mean that he is a king who wants to kill people. Instead, Jesus uses stories to present memorable images, and his parable in Luke 19:27 predicts the outcome for those who reject God on the final day of judgment. The final issue to consider in relation to these verses is a fundamental hermeneutical principle: always interpret unclear verses in light of clear verses. Jesus’ clear words and teachings continue to be “love your enemies” and “lay down your sword.” We never see Jesus carrying a sword in the Gospels, and the only physical conflict in the Gospels that causes Jesus to rebuke his disciple for fighting. This, in addition to the context of the verses in question, helps the reader see the consistency of these verses with Jesus’ peaceful teachings.
Violence in the Old Testament
Another common objection from the Islamic perspective, one that two debaters raised in the very first minute of our public debate in England, concerns violence in the Old Testament. Although there are many ways to formulate this objection, its basic point is that God commands violence in the Bible, therefore Christianity is not peaceful. As we saw in Part 4, this objection fails because Christians are under a new covenant, not the covenant made with Moses and the Hebrews. The commands God gave to the Jews are not the commands given to Christians. However, there are related and more subtle objections that deserve attention. God commands violence in the Old Testament. For this reason, as a Christian, I believe that God can command violence. As a result, I cannot object to Islam solely on the basis of its use of violence. At the same time, the nature of violence in the Old Testament versus Islam is significantly different. What we see in the Old Testament is a judgment that God has ordained at a very specific time and place, a judgment that is delayed for four hundred years. In Genesis 15:13-21, God promises Abraham that his descendants will inherit the land of Canaan. But Abraham himself will not receive this land because “the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete” (Genesis 15:16). God foretells violent battles between the Hebrews and the Canaanites, but the Canaanites are given four hundred years to repent. This is the kind of violence we see in the Old Testament: judgment directed at a specific people for specific sins and delayed as long as possible. On the other hand, the violence that Muhammad teaches extends to all non-Muslims in Islamic lands unless they meet certain conditions. According to the Quran, polytheists have three options: convert to Islam, leave the land, or be killed (e.g., Quran 9.3-11). These options are not limited to a place or person, but apply to all who do not believe in Islam in lands claimed by Muslims. Looking back at the text, 9.5 says: “Kill the polytheists wherever you find them, and seize them, besiege them, and lie in wait for them in every ambush. But if they repent and establish prayer and pay the poor-due, then open the way for them.” In other words, the Quran commands Muslims to kill people for being polytheists, but if they become Muslims, then let them go. The next verse offers another option of exile. Jews and Christians are allowed another option in the Quran: to pay a tribute tax upon surrender (e.g., Quran 9.29). In this case, it is more obvious that the violence was based on their beliefs. The Quran literally says: “Fight those of the People of the Book who do not believe in God and the Last Day... and do not follow the religion of truth [i.e., Jews and Christians].” In other words, fight Jews and Christians who do not accept Islam and do not believe in God. The next verse makes the point clear: “And the Jews say, ‘Uzair is the son of God,’ and the Christians say, ‘The Messiah is the son of God... May God destroy them.” Their punishment is deserved because of their beliefs. This was the verse that justified the offensive against the Romans in the disastrous Battle of Tabuk, even though the Romans had never attacked Muslims. Given these teachings, it is not surprising that the life of Muhammad in Sahih Muslim records that he said, “I will drive out the Jews and the Christians from the Arabian Peninsula and leave none but Muslims.” Before moving on from this point, it is worth noting that the chronology of these verses promoting violence against Jews, Christians, and polytheists is all found in Surah 9 of the Quran, and according to Islamic sources, this is the last Surah of the Quran to be revealed to Muhammad. As it were, it is the most violent teaching found within its pages. This is especially important given the traditional Islamic concept of abrogation, which teaches that earlier verses can be abrogated by later ones.
On the other hand, violence in the Old Testament was part of God’s campaign to make his sovereignty known early in Jewish history. It is nowhere near the final message of the Bible. For Christians, the final commandments are the Great Commission: to spread the good news of God’s love and mercy throughout the world by increasing the number of disciples of Jesus. While the culmination of the Quranic teaching is the most violent chapter of the Quran, the culmination of the Bible’s teachings is grace, love, mercy, and sacrifice. When we look closely at Old Testament violence, we see that it has very little bearing on Christian practice. This conclusion reinforces our basic claim: to justify violence in Christianity, one must divert attention from Jesus. Strict adherence to Jesus’ teachings simply does not allow for any basis for violence. Conversely, one must divert attention from Muhammad to argue that Islam is a religion of peace, because he says that a Muslim who does not fight in jihad or at least does not express a desire to fight is a hypocrite.
Chapter 20
Jesus against Jihad

Before leaving London in July 2009, David and I stopped at Speakers Corner in Hyde Park. For a few hours every Sunday, Britons gather in the park for a rousing display of free speech, climbing ladders to deliver their messages to a throng of listeners. From politics to protests to religious preaching, speakers never lack for subject matter or passion at Speakers Corner, and hundreds of people gather to listen. While many are there simply to shake the speakers or watch the spectacle, some of the audience is genuinely interested in the conversation. David and I, each over six feet tall, abandoned the ladders and proclaimed the gospel where we stood. Almost immediately, we were surrounded by Muslims who, in return, loudly challenged our views. It was harder to answer them over the noise of the crowd than I had anticipated, and after about thirty minutes of conversation and recitation, my voice was too hoarse to continue. I gave up my effort and joined the various discussions that were taking place around us. I saw two passionate sympathizers and decided to join in their conversation. A young Mennonite woman was discussing women’s rights with a Muslim man. When the young woman pointed out 4:34 of the Quran, which allows men to beat their disobedient wives, he replied that 1 Corinthians 14:34 went further in denying women’s rights. Up to this point the dialogue had been fruitful and I had simply been observing the discussion, but what happened next has stuck in my mind for years. The young woman opened the Bible she was holding and attempted to clarify the content of 1 Corinthians 14. As she was turning the pages, the man forcefully squeezed her hand and said, “I don’t trust your Bible. Don’t bother me!” Without thinking, I grabbed her by the collar and pushed her back, saying, “Don’t you dare touch it!” She was stunned, a genuine look of shock on her face. “Nabil, you’re a Christian! I thought Christians were pacifists!” She said, still a little hot under the collar, I replied, “I’m not a pacifist, and if you touch her again, you’ll really find out!” Perhaps she realized her mistake, or perhaps she wanted to avoid letting him know how unpacifist I was, but she apologized to the young woman and they continued their conversation. Years later, I can’t remember her stunned expression. He was absolutely convinced that Christians should be pacifists, and as I consider Jesus’ words more carefully, I have to wonder whether he was right. My actions in Hyde Park that day, in a very small sense, show that defending victims with violence is a natural reflex. But throughout the Gospels, Jesus teaches us to abandon our natural inclinations for his eschatological teachings. Is it possible that, even when it comes to defending victims, Jesus does not want Christians to fight? I’m not sure, to be honest. I find such a teaching hard to believe, but if I were pressed on this point, I think I might have to stick to Jesus’ words in the Bible and forgo violence, even defensive violence, altogether. Although this is a dilemma for me as a Christian, caught between pacifism and defending the oppressed, I think it’s a very good place to be in theology. This means that Christians who want to engage in defensive violence must do so while recognizing it as a moral abomination. No follower of Jesus’ teachings can see violence as inherently good, even defensive. If Jesus had approved of any kind of violence, that would have been very different. Such assistance would have always opened the door to those prone to bloodshed.
This is what we see throughout Islamic history – with ISIS today and other Islamists inevitable in the future. Even Muslims who believe Islam is a religion of peace generally acknowledge that Muhammad permitted war under certain circumstances, and it is Muhammad’s life that Islamists appeal to to justify their terrorism. If Muhammad had commanded or participated in eighty-six wars over nine years after gaining an army, such activity would have been inevitable among his followers. In contrast, it is striking that Jesus Christ, the model for Christians, is never once reported to have carried a sword. This leaves his followers somewhere between an apocalyptic trust in God in pacifism and a reluctant use of violence in defense of the oppressed. There is absolutely no room for joy in violence for followers of Jesus.





Second question
Can we know that?
Is Islam or Christianity true?










A decade of experience as a Christian, contrasted with my first twenty-two years as a Muslim, leaves me with no other conclusion: Christianity is very different from Islam. The message it preaches is pure grace, the God it proclaims is objective love, its founder on earth is none other than the incarnate God, its scriptures are communal and diverse, and it leaves no room for joy in violence. Islam, as traditionally understood, is remarkably different at every stage. Virtually no one with a conservative and devout upbringing in Islam would be under the illusion that Christianity is Islam, especially one with as much to lose as Fatima. After growing up as a Muslim and defending her religion passionately, she became disillusioned with Islam and left it. It was with a full knowledge of the teachings of Islam that she found the message of Jesus compelling. So Fatima not only realized that the two were different, but the fact that she was willing to embrace Christianity after leaving Islam is proof that differences make a difference and are worth the risk. I also traveled from Islam to Christianity, but my path was not the same as Fatima’s. I was not initially disillusioned with Islam and did not see the beauty of the Gospel. As convincing as I now find the Christian message, as a Muslim I did not find it convincing at all. I believed that God was loving, Muhammad was peaceful, the Quran was beautiful, monotheism was the perfect doctrine, and true adherence to the Sharia makes one righteous before God. I felt no need for the Gospel and certainly did not consider it a superior message. But despite my preference for Islam, I had met many people from many religious backgrounds, and there was an undeniable trend: Christians preferred Christianity, Jews preferred Judaism, Hindus preferred Hinduism, and so on for people of all backgrounds. Was that why I preferred Islam as a Muslim? Realizing that people are more comfortable with their own worldview, I didn’t want to base my faith on Islam simply because it was compelling to me. Instead, I was a confident Muslim because I believed Islam was the truth.
Pursuit of truth
As a young, passionate Muslim, I proclaimed the teachings of Islam to anyone who would listen. In my mind, there was not the slightest shred of potential for Christianity to be true, so I regularly engaged in dialogue, pitting the claims of Islam against those of Christianity. In this, Christianity and Islam differ from many other religions. While worldviews often offer subjective reasons for belief, both Christianity and Islam have claims about the past that can be tested against the record of history. When it comes to the person of Jesus, their truth claims are contradictory and both cannot be true. For example, a fundamental Christian doctrine is that Jesus was crucified in the first century (Mark 15:37; Matthew 27:50; Luke 23:46; John 19:33; Acts 10:39; 1 Corinthians 15:3). In contrast, the Quran teaches the exact opposite: Jesus was neither killed nor crucified (4:157). Neither religion treats these accounts of Jesus as a myth, so we cannot resolve these conflicting positions in a metaphorical sense. He was either crucified or he did not die. Islam or Christianity must be wrong. Fully convinced that Islam was correct on all these counts, I was more than ready to challenge Christianity’s claims to truth in order to invite people to Islam. This was the reason I began researching ways to convert people, especially my friend David. However, David challenged me to apply the same criteria to the investigation of Christianity and Islam. I agreed, confident in the truth of Islam, and tried to study the religions objectively as much as I could. Over the course of four years, examining the claims of Islam and Christianity, I went from a firm believer in Islam to a reluctant acceptance of the Bible.
The evidence in favor of Christianity was so strong that I had no choice. What I discovered along the way is what I will share in the next five parts of this book.
The case of Christianity
When David and I first started discussing our beliefs, it started somewhat by accident. Just a few weeks after we met, while we were in Sorghum for a college event, we ended up rooming together. As the evening drew to a close, David pulled his Bible out of his backpack and began reading. As I had been trained as a young Muslim to oppose Christianity, I challenged him, accusing the New Testament of textual corruption. The meeting opened the door to a wide range of conversations, from the inspiration of the Bible to inerrancy to the divinity of Jesus and the Trinity, and much more. It flowed organically from one topic to the next, covering topics that had arisen over the course of our friendship. There was certainly value in discussing these topics in the context of our real lives, but after a year of such discussions, I realized that my knowledge of Christianity was more superficial than I had initially thought. It wasn’t like I realized I was wrong. Rather, I realized that I could not defeat David’s arguments. To be more precise, I wanted to explore these issues more systematically. It was then that we tried to distill Christianity and Islam to their core. At the very least, what must be true for the Christian message to be true? Conversely, what must be true for the Islamic message to be true? We wanted to eliminate all the problems and distractions, and these questions allowed us to skip all the less relevant issues and sectarian differences. There are many branches of both religions that have different teachings, but neither David nor I were interested in specific sectarian teachings or peripheral issues. What defines Christianity at its core, and what defines Islam? For Christianity, we find the answer in Romans 10:9: “If you confess with your mouth, ‘Jesus is Lord,’ and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.” Here we find the entire message of the gospel, formulated as the minimum requirement for saving faith. It has three components: (1) that Jesus died, (2) that he rose from the dead, and (3) that he is God. Fortunately, each of these three components can be tested from a historical perspective. Did Jesus die on the cross or not? As we have seen, this is a fundamental teaching of Christianity that happened in history, so we can open the pages of our historical records to see if they support or deny Jesus’ death. His resurrection is the same. Although this would be a supernatural event, it still happened in history, so we can examine the historical records to see if they support the claim that Jesus rose from the dead. Do they confirm or not? Finally, does the historical record show that Jesus made a claim to be God? If all three are true, then we have good reason to accept the Christian message, because together they make a compelling case. To illustrate, we need to remember that many people claim to have supernatural powers and to be divine. Usually such claims are pathological delusions of grandeur, and we are more than justified in dismissing them as madness. But if someone can demonstrate supernatural authority to support their claim, we have good reason to believe them. In other words, if someone says, “I am God,” we think they are crazy. But if they say, “I will prove my claim by rising from the dead,” and then they actually rise from the dead, we have good reason to believe them. This is exactly what Jesus said the resurrection was for. When people who Those who doubted Jesus’ claims asked him for a sign, and he said that the only sign he would give them was his resurrection. So, if history testifies that Jesus claimed to be God and rose from the dead, we have good reason to accept the Christian message. A very important point to note about the core of the Christian faith is that Islam rejects all three components. The Quran explicitly denies that Jesus ever claimed to be God (5. 116), and it also explicitly denies that he died by crucifixion (4. 157), thus implicitly denying his resurrection from the dead. To understand my journey, and to understand the fundamental incompatibility between Islam and Christianity, it is absolutely vital to internalize this point: the core claims of Christianity are explicitly rejected by Islam. Islamic teaching contradicts the core message of Christianity. Proving the claims of Christianity negates Islam, and vice versa.
As we have already examined, there are many points of agreement between Islam and Christianity, even about the life of Jesus, such as his virgin birth and his ability to perform miracles. But none of those points of agreement are the central proclamation of the gospel. The Bible does not say, “If you believe in the virgin birth, you will be saved.” It says we must believe that Jesus is God, that he died, and that he rose from the dead. Islam categorically rejects these ideas.
The case of Islam
When David and I thought about how to distill Islam to its essence, the answer came clearly in the testimony: “There is no god but Allah and Muhammad is the messenger of Allah.” At the very least, to become a Muslim, one must believe that Allah is God and that Muhammad is His appointed messenger. But is Allah, the God of Islam, the only God? And is Muhammad His true messenger? To examine these, one must turn to the Quran and the record of Muhammad’s life. The Quran, itself the revelation of God and the “proof” of Muslim belief, must be examined carefully. Similarly, Muhammad, as the only direct recipient of the Quran and present in the testimony, must be critically examined to determine whether he is truly the messenger of God. If we can determine that the Quran is the word of God, or if we can determine that Muhammad is the messenger of God, we have a good reason to accept Islam. Unlike the Christian case, where all the elements must be true to make a case, defending Muhammad’s prophethood confirms the inspiration of the Quran, and vice versa. So, conceptually, the issue of Islam should be easier, because only one point needs to be well defended: either the prophethood of Muhammad or the inspiration of the Quran. So, after careful consideration, David and I decided to study these five points:
1. Jesus' death by crucifixion
2. The resurrection of Jesus from the dead
3. Jesus' claim to be God
4. The Prophetic Status of Muhammad
5. The Divine Inspiration of the Quran
Together, these five points constitute the epitome of Christianity and Islam.
The Inspiration of the Bible and the Case for Christianity
The divine inspiration of the Bible is missing from this list, perhaps glaringly. Although David and I had examined the Bible, and its inspiration was crucial to Christian doctrine, we both realized that it constituted the “necessity” of the Christian faith, not the “reason” for it. To focus on the bare necessities of Christianity, we had to set aside many topics that were very important but not central, and the inspiration of the Bible was one of them. Theoretically, even if the Bible had never been written, Jesus could still have died on the cross for our sins and risen from the dead, making the message of Christianity real. The inspiration of the Bible is not central to Christianity. Unlike the Bible, the Quran is the “reason” for Muslim belief. When skeptics challenged Muhammad to provide evidence for his claims, his primary argument was the inspiration of the Quran. He repeatedly, at least five times, cited the divine origin of the Quran as a reason for people to trust Islam. In contrast, when the early Christians proclaimed the gospel, the main reason they pointed to was the resurrection of Jesus, not the text of the Bible. For these reasons, the Quran forms a central pillar in the case of Islam, while Jesus forms the main pillar in the case of Christianity. This is consistent with what we have already learned about Islam and Christianity: the Quran and Jesus are similar in these two religions, not the Quran and the Bible. However, let us be careful not to confuse divine inspiration and historical authenticity. We will examine what the various books of the Bible say about the death, resurrection, and divinity of Jesus, so we must examine whether their records on these matters are historically reliable. But of course, assessing the accuracy of specific claims found in the books of the Bible is very different from determining whether the entire Bible is the inspired word of God. No early Christian ever argued the latter as a defense of the Gospel, so we will not consider that argument here, although we will consider the historical validity of the Bible insofar as it affects our case for Christianity. In contrast, because it is the primary argument presented by Muhammad and early Muslims, we will consider the inspiration of the Quran.
Objective: Defense of faith versus evaluation of faith
Before I get into this research, I want to share something that took me years to truly understand: It is nearly impossible to study these issues objectively. Not only do we all have a strong belief in the religions we have believed in and our social circles are interested in, but our beliefs also color the way we perceive information. The same data is interpreted differently by people with different worldviews. When we examine Islam and Christianity as believers, as believers in one faith or the other, our Christian or Muslim presuppositions influence how we interpret the evidence, and we often see what we want to see. When I began examining the data, I came to the table with the assumption that Islam was true and interpreted the data based on that. No matter what facts David presented, I either made them fit my Islamic paradigm or found a way to refute them. Defending what you already believe is not difficult, and anyone who sets their mind to it can do it, whether Muslim, Christian, or whatever. What is difficult is pursuing the truth about the faith and evaluating it honestly. This feat requires that one be introspective and self-critical at frequent intervals. While we can never completely overcome our biases, the most important step we can take is to intentionally pursue fairness. As we examine the data, we should repeatedly ask ourselves, “Would an objective observer find the arguments convincing?” In the next five sections of this book, I will raise this question repeatedly as I evaluate the cases of Christianity and Islam. After examining the first three points, which bear on the case of Islam and Christianity, there will be a midway summary to consolidate the findings to that point before examining the case of Islam. While still a Muslim, I decided that the best question to begin my investigation was one that was a point of contention, but one that was easily examined historically and left the least room for subjectivity: Did Jesus die on the cross?







Part 6
Did Jesus die on the cross?










Chapter 21
Positive case
Unanimous records

In 2002, David and I organized a friendly interfaith dialogue with my father and two of David’s friends, Mike Licona and Gary Habermas. Mike was a martial arts instructor and insurance salesman who had begun graduate school in religion, and Gary was one of his professors. Gary had participated in many interfaith dialogues, Mike regularly hosted people of different religious backgrounds in his home, and my father was always eager to preach Islam, so everyone felt comfortable coming together and discussing deep beliefs. Part of the reason I felt comfortable, however, was that I had chosen a topic that we had heard Muslim leaders and scholars discuss dozens of times: Did Jesus die by crucifixion? In addition to our relative familiarity with the subject, the Quran took a bold stance on the subject, and I had confidence in the word of God. The Quran explicitly denies Jesus’ death by crucifixion. In verse 4.157 it says: “And their saying: We killed the Messiah, Jesus, the son of Mary, the messenger of God, and they killed him not, nor crucified him, but the matter was made doubtful to them, and those who differ about him are in doubt about it, and they have no knowledge of it except conjecture, and they killed him not.” Muslims interpret this verse in various ways. The view that my father and I defended that day was the view supported by Muslim debaters such as Ahmed Deedat and Shabbir al-Mutawfiq: Jesus did not actually die on the cross, but appeared to be dying. Although this is the position of prominent Muslim intellectuals, it is a minority among Muslims generally. Most Muslims, going back to the earliest interpretations of Islam, believe that the face of Jesus was placed on another person who was crucified in his place. My father presented our perspective for the first part of the night, and Mike and Gary then engaged with us, explaining their reasons for believing that Jesus actually died on the cross.
Scientific consensus
The most striking point of the evening for me, and perhaps most important to a mind accustomed to thinking in terms of authority, is that virtually no non-Muslim scholar agrees with the Islamic position. For all intents and purposes, there is a unanimous view in academia that Jesus died by crucifixion. While scholarly consensus is not proof in itself, it was a hard-hitting survey. Of course, I was not at all surprised that Christian scholars agreed on this point. What surprised me was the insistence of non-Christian scholars that this was a point so solid that it was beyond dispute. Gerd Ludmann is a German scholar who was so skeptical of the Bible that he famously said, “The person of Jesus himself becomes insufficient as a basis for faith.”
Yet even he did not mince words about the death of Jesus. In his book, What Really Happened to Jesus, Ludmann critically examines the life of Jesus from various angles, often completely ignoring the traditional Christian position. But in his section entitled “The Death of Jesus,” he omits only two sentences: “The fact that Jesus died by crucifixion, despite the hypotheses of a sham or a sham death that are sometimes put forward, is undeniable. There is no need to discuss it further here.” He then continues, as if it were pointless to dwell on the subject. Paula Fredriksen, another renowned scholar who frequently challenges Christian beliefs, concludes similarly to Ludmann, saying: “The most solid fact about the life of Jesus is his death: he was executed by Pilate, the Roman prefect, on or around Passover. In the way Rome had reserved for political rebels, namely, crucifixion. This point was succinctly put by perhaps one of the most provocative critics of traditional Christianity, John Dominic Crossan, who says, “There is not the slightest doubt that Jesus was crucified under Pontius Pilate.” He says elsewhere, “That he was crucified is as certain as anything historical.” As a graduate student in historical studies for the past decade, I have learned that scholars disagree on almost every historical point they discuss, and that it is almost impossible to find a consensus of scholars, yet almost all New Testament scholars today agree that Jesus died on the cross. Even those scholars who have no hesitation in rejecting traditional Christian beliefs, as we have seen, say that Jesus’ death on the cross is “irrefutable,” “the most solid fact about the life of Jesus,” and “as certain as anything historical.” I am not arguing here that Jesus must have died by crucifixion because almost all non-Muslim scholars believe that. That would be an appeal to authority, a flawed logical argument. I am simply recounting what Mike and Gary pointed out to me that night, which made me think about how much of a struggle we would have if we thought Jesus did not die on the cross. The evidence for Jesus’ death by crucifixion is so strong that almost every scholar who studies Jesus’ life believes it. In fact, the evidence is so strong that at least one Muslim scholar agrees with it. In the flurry of media attention that followed the publication of his book Zeal, Reza Aslan made it abundantly clear that Jesus “was definitely crucified.” Aslan is one of the most well-known Muslim scholars in the West, and given the historical evidence, he also believes that Jesus died on the cross, despite what the Quran teaches. He believes so much in the crucifixion of Jesus that he uses it as the basis for his entire theory of the life of Jesus. What evidence is there that would convince all these scholars - Christian, non-Christian, and even Muslim?
Cross Records
As I was taught by my professors at Oxford, the foundation of any good historical argument must always be primary sources: what do the historical documents themselves show? By all standards of ancient history, the accounts of Jesus are very early and very diverse. Only a few years after Jesus was crucified, Christians, Jews, and Romans report that Jesus died by crucifixion. This testimony has been unanimous for over a hundred years. Perhaps the earliest accounts are found in a letter written to the church in Corinth. According to many New Testament scholars, both Christian and non-Christian, 1 Corinthians 15 contains a doctrine that was formulated within five years of Jesus’ crucifixion, and it testifies that Jesus died and was buried: “For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, 4and that he was buried, and that he was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures.” (1 Corinthians 15:3-4) It is important to understand the significance of this data: before the New Testament was even written, Christians were passing on the basic doctrines of their faith to one another, and the death of Jesus was one of their first concerns. This teaching was not only present in the earliest days of Christianity, but was also a central part of their doctrine. That we have a record of such a tradition coming within five years of Jesus’ death is almost unprecedented in ancient history. Compared to most historical records, the speed It is lightning fast. Another such formulation of faith, which many scholars believe predates the New Testament, is found in the letter to the Philippians. Here again, the death of Jesus is not only present but also highlighted: “[Christ Jesus] humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross” (Philippians 2:8).
The earliest biographers of Jesus’ life all testify that Jesus died by crucifixion: Mark, Matthew, Luke, and John. Moreover, many other New Testament writers and books agree. Without carefully considering the implications, some might argue that these sources are from the Bible, and therefore biased and should not serve as evidence. There are at least two problems with this view. First, all historical sources are biased, and although we should weigh biases when examining them, the mere presence of bias is not sufficient reason to discredit the accounts. If that were the case, we would have to discard all history, indeed all news reports and personal stories of friends. Second, these sources were written by people from a variety of backgrounds, and by and large, they did not begin life as Christians. Although originally non-Christians, they found the Christian message compelling enough to convert, often at great expense. So, in any case, their testimony may be given more credence. Regardless, the testimony of the early Christians is corroborated by non-Christian accounts: Josephus, a failed Jewish general who befriended the Roman emperor, also reports in the first century that Jesus died by crucifixion. He is joined shortly thereafter by Tacitus, a Roman historian who also reports Jesus’ death. In the first hundred years after Jesus, we have Christian, Jewish, and Roman accounts that Jesus died by crucifixion, and not a single account that he may not have died by crucifixion. This last fact becomes even more compelling when we consider the account that some people tried to explain why Jesus’ tomb was empty. Instead of Jesus not dying on the cross, they argued that his body had been stolen. So, even though there was a perfect opportunity to argue that Jesus did not die by crucifixion, it seems that no one thought of it. And there is a good reason for this: all people were familiar with the horror of the cross.
The horror of the cross
Simply put, the cross was one of the most vicious, agonizing, and effective methods of execution that human depravity has ever devised. The torture of the cross was so severe that a word was invented to describe it: agonizing, which translates from Latin as the pain of "the cross." The ancient Roman orator Cicero described crucifixion as "the most cruel and abominable punishment" and "the worst extreme torture." According to him, even the thought of the "horror of the cross" was too terrifying for Roman citizens: "The word 'cross' should not only be far from the character of a Roman citizen, but also from his thoughts, eyes, and ears." Seneca the Younger wrote this paragraph describing the despair of the crucified: "Can one be found who would rather perish in pain, or give up his life drop by drop, than die once and for all? Can one be found who would want to be tied to a cursed tree, long ill, already disfigured, swollen with ugly tumors on his chest and shoulders, and breathe life in the midst of long agony? I think he had many excuses for death even before he mounted the cross!" Crucifixion was an execution that Rome reserved for when they wanted to make a statement. There was no standard procedure for crucifixion, as executioners were often given permission to express their own brutality. Victims were sometimes fixed to the cross in uncomfortable positions, sometimes nailed to their groin, sometimes forced to watch their wives being brutalized, sometimes witnessing the massacre of their own families, and sometimes having their own murdered sons hanged around their necks. Crucifixion was not just another means of execution, as there were far more efficient ways to kill. The cross was intended to be brutal, and victims were not treated gently. Crucifixion often followed scourging, as in the case of Jesus, which was itself a horrific torture. The scourging was designed to tear through the skin and turn the muscles to pulp, causing the victim’s blood to “flow out of the veins.” Josephus tells us that victims were “whipped to the bone” and their intestines were sometimes exposed to whipping. This is why Seneca describes a victim as “a beaten and inert corpse” when placed on the cross. The ultimate end of crucifixion was execution, and it was easy to tell whether a victim of the cross was alive or dead: simply observe whether they were still moving. If they weren’t, they were dead, because that meant they weren’t breathing. Because of the way the victims of crucifixion were hung, their chests were completely expanded and their lungs couldn’t create the pressure needed to exhale. To get their breath out, they had to push against the nails in their feet and could only breathe as they sank. When they reached the point of exhaustion or blood loss, their bodies would sink, no longer able to breathe. They could not breathe and died of suffocation. That is why one way to hasten or ensure the death of victims was to break their knees, as is said to have happened to the robbers on either side of Jesus. Once their knees were broken, they could no longer breathe and would soon die. The Romans, however, had other means of ensuring death. Among other methods, they were known to set people on fire, feed them to wild animals, or, in the case of Jesus, pierce their hearts. This is a very concise and concise description of the horror of the cross. It was an execution that Rome considered for the most worthless or heinous of criminals. Perhaps it is now understandable why in ancient Rome the word cross was used as a curse of rank among the lower classes: “Crucify!” It is not surprising that no one in recorded history has survived a full-scale Roman crucifixion. However, what must be said is that It is surprising that a religious movement could be started with the ridiculous announcement that their Savior was crucified.
The ignorance of the cross
Given the incomparable shame of crucifixion, Christians promoted their message by saying that their Savior had died on the cross. If Jesus died such a horrible death, how could He save anyone? That is why people ridiculed Christians for this belief. The earliest known depiction of Jesus on the cross is a painting designed to mock a Christian named Alexamnus. It depicts Jesus on the cross as the head of a marcasite, and the inscription reads: “Alexamnus worships his god!” Crucifixion was a shameful thing to do. To worship such a person, even more so. This is the focus of an anti-Christian argument written by Minucius Felix, who says: “To say that their rites are centered on a man who was murdered for his own crime, and on the deadly wood of the cross, is to say that for these forsaken wretches, sanctuaries are appointed. It is fitting for them and their kind of worship.” In other words, if Christians are so depraved as to worship the Crucifix, they deserve to worship a Crucifix. Not only the Romans, but also the Jews saw the cross as a great disgrace. Deuteronomy 21:23 teaches that “Cursed is he who is hanged on a tree (for the death penalty).” In short, the Jews did not expect a suffering Messiah, let alone one who was cursed by God. That is why the Corinthian church had to make sure that despite all appearances, the cross of Jesus was still the gospel: “For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God” (1 Corinthians 1:18). When we recognize the common understanding of the cross, it makes perfect sense why it would seem to be “foolishness.” Without a doubt, the message “Christ crucified is to Jews a stumbling block and to Gentiles foolishness” (1 Corinthians 1:23). To Jews and Gentiles alike, the message of a crucified Savior was hateful and ridiculous. In other words, anyone who heard the message of the cross was repelled by it, at least initially. It certainly was not an attractive proclamation. Given that the cross would elicit such ridicule and disgust, the question we must consider is why would Christians preach such a message? Why not preach an alternative, more appealing message, such as that Jesus survived the cross, or that, despite appearances, Jesus never went to the cross in the first place? Better yet, why not leave the cross out of Christian preaching altogether and teach that he died by some other means, or perhaps that he didn’t die at all, but rose directly to heaven? All of this would make the Christian message more appealing to anyone who would hear it. There is only one possible answer: Jesus did indeed die by crucifixion, and the disciples were preaching what they wanted to proclaim as truth.
Summarizing the positive
An entire book could be devoted to the death of Jesus, as indeed dozens have done, but we may summarize the positive case before examining the Islamic response. The basis of any historical case must be primary sources, and in this case, the sources are unanimous, diverse, primary, and abundant: Jesus died by crucifixion. Beginning almost immediately after Jesus’ death, more than a dozen writers and traditions recorded Jesus’ death by crucifixion, including Christian, Jewish, and Roman sources, and their testimony was unanimous. For over a hundred years, no account even suggests that Jesus survived death on the cross or circumvented his execution. This fits well with what we know about the methods of crucifixion, since no person in recorded history has ever survived a full-scale Roman crucifixion.




Chapter 22
Islamic answer
Thus it became suspicious.

After hearing Gary and Mike’s position, it was clear that my father and I would be in for a tough battle on this issue. We argued, regardless of the positions we had been taught in the mosque, and had much to say. Here I will recount the bulk of what we argued, as well as present the more common Muslim arguments against the death of Jesus. Islamic responses to the above argument can be categorized according to two main interpretations. 4. 157 Recall the central part of this verse: “They did not kill him, nor did they crucify him, but it was made doubtful to them.” The two common interpretations place relative emphasis on different parts of this verse. The view that Muslim debaters often hold, that Jesus survived the cross, focuses on the first part—“they did not kill him”—while the majority view focuses on the second part: “but it was made doubtful to them.”
They didn't kill him.
My father and I argued that Jesus was crucified but not killed. Jesus miraculously survived the cross, was taken down alive, was placed in a tomb for healing, and then was rescued from the Romans. This is not the same theory that Christian apologists call the Soven theory, a theory that was destroyed hundreds of years ago by the critical atheist scholar David Strauss. A naturalistic view, the Soven theory argued that Jesus somehow survived the crucifixion. Strauss’s criticism was powerful: Even if Jesus had somehow survived the crucifixion, his body was broken and mutilated, and he was in desperate need of medical care. The disciples may have been relieved that he survived, but this is no explanation for the beginnings or preaching of the early church. According to the historical account, Jesus’ disciples preached that the Lord of life had risen in glory, and this belief led them to deny death to the point of being more willing to die. According to Strauss, this would not have happened if Jesus had just survived the cross. Christian apologists who responded to the Suven theory focused on a different, more internal point: If Jesus had somehow survived the cross, his legs would still have been broken, his arms crippled, his sides pierced, his body mutilated, and otherwise incapacitated. They argued that even if Jesus had come out of the tomb, it would have been a miracle! But as Muslims, we realized that this required a miracle, and that is what we argued. This was what I called the Suven theory, and we argued that God miraculously preserved Jesus’ life on the cross. We presented this argument in a heartfelt package: “If God could perform the great miracle of raising Jesus from the dead, why couldn’t He perform a lesser miracle to keep him from dying in the first place?” In effect, this circumvented the inevitability of Jesus’ death. No matter how brutal the cross, God’s ability to keep Jesus alive is greater. We also argued that subtle traces of this divine plan still exist in the Gospels: Pilate did not want to kill Jesus because of the sleep God had given his wife. His attempt to release Jesus failed when the crowd demanded Barabbas. Pilate may have resorted to collusion with the executioner to ensure that Jesus’ body was neither killed nor hung on the cross for the usual length of time. Joseph of Arimathea may also have conspired with Pilate, as evidenced by his request for Jesus’ body. The women who came to the tomb must have brought aloes and myrrh for medicinal purposes. Jesus disguised himself as a gardener to escape the guards. The holes in Jesus’ hands showed that he had not been raised from the dead, etc. We also argued that Jesus himself did not want to die, as shown by his prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane. Jesus was so concerned about the cross that he sweat drops of blood. We argued that the best explanation for this was that he was begging God to save him from the cross. We linked this argument to a verse from Hebrews that says, “In the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplications, with loud cries and tears to him who was able to save him from death, and he was heard because he believed” (Hebrews 5:7). God, the merciful God who protects his prophets, heard Jesus’ prayers and miraculously saved him from death on the cross. Given that God is more than able to save Jesus, and that the biblical record still contains evidence in favor of this theory, we argued that Jesus did not die by crucifixion.
But it was made to appear.
However, the more common position among Muslims regarding the death of Jesus is often called the substitution theory. This is the belief that Jesus' face was superimposed on another person. Often, Muslims argue that it was either Simon of Cyrene, who literally switched places with Jesus as he carried the cross to the place of crucifixion, or Judas Iscariot, who deserved punishment for betraying his prophet. This is a position that cannot be easily defended with historical arguments, but it is often supplemented with such arguments, primarily criticisms of the biblical narrative. For example, a common accusation is that the Gospels disagree about what happened when the women went to the tomb on the third day. Mark's Gospel depicts a young man dressed in white, Matthew tells of an angel who rolled back the stone, Luke describes two men who appeared with the women, and John says that two angels were sitting where Jesus was. The differences between the Gospels indicate confusion in each of their accounts. The writers did not know what really happened. Those Muslims who argue for the horrific Soven theory also use these points to support their claim, and the Quranic phrase "it appeared" also applies to their theory, but in a lesser sense. God performed the miracle of preserving Jesus' life, and in the end it appeared that Jesus was dead, when he was not. In the substitution theory, the words "it appeared" have a much more active meaning. The very miracle that God performs is that Jesus appears to be dead, when he is really dead.
Conclusion of the Muslim response
Ultimately, Muslims respond that, despite its appearance, God saved Jesus from the cross. He may have done so by miraculously preserving Jesus' body, as the Gospels skillfully recount, or he may have done so by replacing Jesus with someone else. In general, the biblical record is unreliable, and so there is no good reason to trust its narrative.
Chapter 23
Assessing the Islamic response
The Quran and the Historical Jesus

Both major Islamic theories about Jesus' death on the cross deserve careful consideration. Let us examine each one closely, taking into account the context of some of the Quran's teachings about Jesus, while delving deeper into the majority belief in the theory of succession.
Response to Suwon's theory
Before properly answering the argument, it is worth noting what the Quranic verse actually says: “They did not kill him, nor did they crucify him.” Ostensibly, this verse says that he was never even nailed to a cross, but we and other Muslims who argued for the theistic Soven theory took the second clause to mean that “he was not killed by crucifixion.” So basically we interpreted the verse as “they did not kill him by crucifixion.” It was a tense statement, but pointing to a problematic interpretation of the Quran does not answer the argument. To test this theory, we need to isolate its main point: Although Jesus could have died on the cross under natural circumstances, he did not die because God miraculously preserved him. Of course, this is an explanation that requires a miracle, but we must repeatedly remind ourselves that we are doing our best to investigate as objective observers. Should an objective observer conclude that such a miracle occurred? The miracle occurred unless there is another plausible explanation, and even then only under certain circumstances. In this case, there is another explanation, and it is very likely: Jesus died on the cross. For an objective observer to conclude that a miracle occurred in this case, one would have to believe that Jesus’ death on the cross was not even probable. But of course it is more likely. The explanation is clear. As for the verses cited as subtle works of divine design, it is worth noting that these verses are in the context of the four Gospels, where Jesus repeatedly prophesied his death and he did indeed die. It is poor handling of the texts to extract verses from their context and say that they claim the exact opposite of their context, unless there is a good reason to do so. In this case, there is not only no good reason to do so, but also a good reason: the verses predicting and announcing Jesus’ death are abundant and clear, while these “subtle traces” are often isolated and require an unlikely interpretation. One of the fundamental rules of sound hermeneutics, whether Quranic or biblical or secular, is to interpret unclear statements in light of clear statements, not vice versa. Ignoring the clear statements of Jesus’ death, and referring to these verses as an indication that God saved him, is poor research methodology. Some might point to the different accounts of the Gospels, such as the empty tomb scene, as a reason to set aside the Gospel testimony, but it does not follow logically. A conservative Christian might respond that these verses can all be reconciled: indeed, there were two angels on the scene who appeared as young men. All four Gospel accounts are consistent with this understanding, although none of them explicitly states it. But even less conservative scholars who might agree that the empty tomb accounts are inconsistent need not conclude that this somehow negates the uniform testimony of Jesus’ death on the cross. That does not logically follow. Furthermore, the theistic theory of the Seven is inconsistent with important historical facts. For example, it casts Pilate in a God-fearing light who was willing to conspire with the Jews to save an innocent man. Historically, the opposite seems to be true. Pilate was ruthless and did not hesitate to kill Jews if it meant maintaining order and Roman rule. This is true in history, as Josephus records Pilate’s willingness to kill innocent Samaritans, as well as robbing the temple treasury and beating those who protested. He was guilty, ordering his crucifixion when threatened with treason. Finally, and most problematically for the careful historian, the Soven theory offers no explanation for the origin of the Christian church. What compelled the early Christians to preach a crucified and resurrected Jesus if they themselves had conspired to save him? Were they liars, or should we dismiss other sets of evidence and argue that they did not preach a crucified and resurrected Christ? Ultimately, this theory requires the scholar to ignore not only all the evidence for the death of Jesus, but also our entire understanding of early Christianity, although the theory is shaped by dozens of sources. This is an important point to which we will return in the midway summary after Part 8.

Responding to the Succession Theory: The Quran as a Source for the Life of Jesus
The substitution theory is even less of a historical argument than Sowon's, and it must be remembered that no objective observer should conclude that Allah performed a miracle for which there is a clear explanation. Why should anyone argue that Jesus did not die and that God instead transferred the image of Jesus to someone else? In this case, there is really not much room for doubt: the basis of this Islamic belief is simply that the Quran insists on it. However, if we are to be fair, we must assess the potential for the Quran to be accurate. Do we have good reason to believe that the Quran might know something about Jesus that the New Testament does not? Of course, we must remind ourselves that we are investigating as objective observers and cannot start by assuming that the Quran was inspired by Allah. Until we can trace the Quran's teachings about Jesus back to earlier times, we must conclude that this testimony is six hundred years late and more than six hundred miles removed, and is therefore unlikely to tell us anything more accurate than the Gospels. It comes from the time of Jesus' eyewitnesses and from the vicinity of his community. But the teachings of the Quran about Jesus can be traced back to earlier times. Much of what the Quran teaches had already been taught. For example, consider 5.110: “Remember when God said, ‘O Jesus, son of Mary, remember My favor upon you and upon your mother, when I supported you with the Holy Spirit, so that you spoke to people in the cradle [by miracle] and in your old age [by revelation], and when I taught you the Book and the Wisdom and the Torah and the Gospel, and when you made from clay by My permission the shape of a bird, then you breathed into it and it became a bird by My permission, and you healed the blind and the lepers by My permission, and when you brought the dead [alive] from the grave by My permission, and when I protected the Children of Israel from you when you had brought them clear proofs.” We will focus on the two teachings in italics, starting with the second: the Quran teaches that Jesus miraculously brought clay birds to life. We find no narrative basis for this miracle. It is simply presented in a list of God’s provisions for Jesus. But for those familiar with the apocalyptic gospels, the context for this story is already known, because it is well-known. In the mid-second century, people began to produce stories about Jesus, “fables,” if you will, often basing their stories on the mysterious seals of his childhood and focusing on his ability to perform miracles. These fabricated gospels are called the infancy gospels. One of the more entertaining examples is the childhood Gospel of Thomas. In this infancy gospel, Jesus is five years old and is particularly mischievous, often bullying other boys with his supernatural powers. While Jesus was by a mountain stream making a pond, another boy came and left the puddles, so Jesus cursed him and immediately the boy dried up. Later, another boy accidentally ran past Jesus and hit him on the shoulder, so the young Jesus cursed the boy, who died immediately. The parents of these boys came to Joseph and told him to control Jesus, who blinded them. When Jesus’ teacher tries to teach him to respect his elders, the five-year-old Jesus rebukes him and instead begins to teach the teacher! Everyone is amazed at what a child Jesus is. Until his teacher exclaims in despair that Jesus must be an angel or God himself, Jesus laughs in approval and heals all the people he cursed. So the story goes, with the boy Jesus using his miraculous abilities to curse some people, heal others, carry water in his clothes, or even repair things. Whenever the people shouted that he must be God or an angel of God, he abated from his wickedness. To give the story a realistic tone, the author ends the story by tying it to the Gospel of Luke, in which Jesus is twelve years old and in the temple, where the elders are amazed at his knowledge, as they were. The Infancy Gospel of Thomas This entertaining story gives us the context for the Quranic teaching that Jesus gave life to clay birds. Early in the story, when a Jew saw Jesus making clay birds on the Sabbath, he went to Joseph to accuse Jesus of doing something illegal on the holy day. The mischievous little Jesus knew that making clay birds on the Sabbath was illegal, but playing with live birds was legal. The Quran refers to this famous account in 5.110 without providing any context, assuming it to be historical fact. The same Quranic verse also says that Jesus spoke to people in the cradle. Chapter 19 of the Quran, the chapter named after Mary, provides further details. Verse 23 shows Mary in labor, leaning against a date palm. In her agony, she says, "Would that I had died before this!" Jesus, who gives birth to him, replies, "Do not worry, your Lord has given you a river beneath you." Shortly thereafter, when his people ask him if he has had immoral relations, he points to Jesus and says that they should ask him themselves. They reply, "How can we speak to a child in the cradle?" The child Jesus replies, "Indeed, I am a servant of Allah. He has given me the Book and made me a prophet." This account has striking similarities to another childhood gospel, the Arabic Infancy Gospel of the Savior, also known as the Arabic Infant Gospel. In his introduction, after some historical errors about Joseph and Caiaphas, he says: “Jesus spoke and indeed, as he lay in his cradle, he said to his mother Mary: I am Jesus, the Son of God, the Logos, you brought him forth, as the angel Gabriel announced to you. And my Father has sent me to save the world.” The announcement of the beloved Jesus in the Quran is very similar to the Islamic version of the announcement of the newborn Jesus in the Arabic infancy gospel.
Response to the theory of succession: The mystical influence on 4. 157
Many other Quranic teachings can be traced back to earlier fictional accounts, but the important point for now is Message 4.157: “He was neither killed nor crucified, but the matter was made doubtful to them.” Is there any reason to believe that this teaching predates the Quran and is perhaps more reliable than the Gospel accounts? As it turns out, another well-known source in the second century taught exactly this. This Gospel quotes Basilides, a mystical teacher whose school of thought continued for centuries after his death. The word mysticism refers to secret knowledge, since mystics believed that people needed secret knowledge to escape from the material world, which was inherently evil. Irenaeus records what Basilides taught about Jesus’ death on the cross: “He [Christ] did not die, but Simon of Cyrene, who was compelled to carry the cross in his place. So that the latter, who had been transformed by him, to be thought of as Jesus, was crucified in ignorance and error, while Jesus himself took the form of Simon and, standing by, laughed at them. He was not killed or crucified, but was suspected (suspected) because he had changed his form with Simon of Cyrene. This is precisely what is connected with the theory of succession, the interpretation of the majority of the Quran. But why did Basilides teach this? Was it because Basilides had access to some historical truth? If so, perhaps the Quran knows something that the New Testament does not. The mystics had a wide range of beliefs, but one of the most common was that there were many gods who proceeded from the Father, the unbegotten God. Basilides affirms this belief and teaches that the first emanation of the Father is the mind of the Father. That is, Jesus, the first-born God. After other genesis which produced the lower gods, it was the lowest god who created the material world. According to Basilides, this is the God of the Jews with his angels. The Father sent Jesus to save the mystics from the God of the Jews, the creator of this evil world. Since the material world is evil, Basilides says that Jesus could not have had a material body, therefore he could not have been crucified. We find this in the passage which immediately follows: For since he was not born of the incorporeal power and mind of the Father, he transformed himself as he pleased, and thus ascended to him who sent him and mocked them. It could not be held and was invisible to all. Therefore those who know these things are freed from the governments which constituted the world. So that it is not for us to confess the crucifixion, but the one who came in the form of a man and was supposed to have been crucified, and who is called Jesus and sent by the Father, by which means he may destroy the works of the creators of the world. Thus the Quranic teaching about Jesus who “was not killed nor crucified, but was made suspicious” seems to go back to a second-century mystic. The source of this late and fabricated gospel is promoting “hidden knowledge” to support its polytheistic worldview, not providing historical information about the life of Jesus. We can be sure that the narrative 4.157 is not such as an objective scholar would consider reliable historical evidence, and so we must reject the alternative theory.
Response to the Succession Theory: Final Words
In the context of a Muslim scholar, such as myself, one might be tempted to respond that the verses of the Quran are from Allah, not from these fabricated sources, and are historically valid regardless of this. But as before, I had to remind myself repeatedly that I was investigating as an objective observer and could not come to this conclusion without assuming that the Quran was inspired. The temporal priority of the apocryphal gospels is obvious, as is the fact that their narratives are not historically accurate. But there is a stronger reason to challenge this assumption. The information in these three passages makes very good textual sense in the apocryphal gospels, but it makes no sense in the Quran. In the Infancy Gospel of Thomas, Jesus, as a miraculous mischievous spirit, breathed life into clay birds, which is entirely consistent with the text. In the Arabic Infancy Gospel, he uttered words at birth, because he was the eternal Word of God. In the Gospel of Basilides, he was neither killed nor crucified, because he was divine and did not have a physical body. But why does the Quran say that Jesus gives life to clay birds? No reason or context is given. The Quran merely refers to a well-known narration. Why could the infant Jesus speak at birth? Again, no reason is given. He can only explain why Jesus was not crucified and why someone else appeared like him? The Quran does not give a reason; it simply claims this secret knowledge as truth. These three narrations are much better in the context of the fabricated gospels, and given that the Quran is the later source of all of them, we must conclude that the Quran’s views on Jesus are from these later and fabricated sources that are historically unreliable and theologically contrary to Islam.
















Chapter 24
Conclusion
Jesus died on the cross.

Leaving Mike’s house that evening, my opinion about Jesus’ death had not changed. It is rare to overturn a lifelong belief overnight. But one thing was becoming clear to me: My belief that Jesus did not die on the cross was based on faith in Islam, not the facts of history. Historically, the evidence for Jesus’ death was overwhelmingly in favor of Christianity and against Islam. Of course, Islam could still be true. If there were other good reasons for believing in the Quran, such as the common Muslim arguments for the inspiration of the Quran, and if those arguments outweighed the historical evidence for Jesus’ death, I would be justified in maintaining my faith in the Quran. In Islam, for that reason, as far as my personal beliefs were concerned, I did not waver in my Islamic faith. In my heart, I believed that the Quran would soon be vindicated. But, as far as my research on the subject was concerned, I remembered my commitment to objectivity and had to be honest with myself. Would an objective observer conclude that Jesus died by crucifixion? Of course, atheist and mystical scholars answered this question for us with a resounding yes, absolutely. The reasons were numerous: the accounts of Jesus’ death appear with lightning speed, are claimed dozens of times over a hundred years, and the chorus of narratives is composed of Christian, Jewish, and Roman voices. No one had ever survived a full-scale Roman crucifixion, and if Jesus had, it would have been a much more appealing message to the early church than a crucified Savior. The answers of Islam, the Soven theory, and the substitution theory are untenable, both because they suggest miracles in the face of much more obvious and plausible explanations, and because they require a complete reexamination of the historical facts of early Christianity, as we will soon see. Furthermore, there is little reason to trust the Quran as a historical source about the life of Jesus, since it was composed six hundred years after Jesus and more than six hundred miles away from where he lived. Although there are narrations in the Quran that date back to earlier periods, they are from later, fabricated gospels that are not historically reliable. In conclusion, we must agree with Gerd Lodman: "The fact of Jesus' death by crucifixion is undeniable."















Part 7
Did Jesus rise from the dead?











Chapter 25
Positive case
The best explanation of the facts

Jesus’ death on the cross is not the end of the Christian message. The gospel is that Jesus then rose from the dead. While every other life ended in death, Jesus’ death ended in life, and his resurrection is the basis of all Christian confidence. Death is not something to be feared. Jesus has conquered it, and we are in him. His resurrection has been the source of Christian faith since the foundation of the church. In the book of Acts, Luke records the first Christian sermon, in which Peter concludes with the proclamation of the resurrection: “This Jesus God raised up, of which we are all witnesses” (Acts 2:32). In his next recorded sermon, Peter says, “You killed the Source of life, but God raised him from the dead, and we are witnesses of this” (Acts 3:15). No fewer than eleven passages in the book of Acts record the early church proclaiming the resurrection of Jesus. This was the message that established the early church: Jesus rose from the dead. But the importance of the resurrection is perhaps most clearly stated by Paul, who says in 1 Corinthians 15:14, “And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain, and your faith is in vain.” If Jesus remains dead and does not rise, then the Christian preaching and the Christian faith are in vain. If He did not conquer death, neither will we. Did Jesus rise from the dead? Do we have good reason to believe in the resurrection of Christ? If so, this is a solid foundation for the Christian faith. If not, then Christians are the most pitiable people. This is what It was about a year after Mike and I sat in his living room, but this time there were seven hundred more people listening. In 2004, Mike Likona debated the question, "Did Jesus rise from the dead?" with Shabir Eli, a famous Muslim debater.


Minimal facts approach
That night, Mike was advancing an argument pioneered by his friend Gary, called the Minimal Facts Approach. The advantages of this argument are that it is powerful, easy to understand, and so simple that it can be stated in a single sentence: There are historical facts about the crucifixion of Jesus that almost all historians agree on, and that are by far the best explanation for them. The fact is that Jesus rose from the dead. To provide background, Gary had spent thirty years cataloging the positions of historical Jesus scholars, whether they were mystics, atheists, Jews, Christians, or any other worldview. He read everything that had been published about the historical Jesus in scholarly journals and monographs written in French, English, or German. He found that on some issues, more than 90 percent of scholars agreed. As he examined these facts, he realized that Jesus’ resurrection explained them best. So far. Any other explanation would ignore or suppress the historical facts about Jesus’ death. Indeed, when we consider the historian’s task, it is precisely that: to present a narrative model that makes the best sense of the historical record. In this case, the only model that really fits the facts is that Jesus rose from the dead. Taking a list of facts from Gary, Mike has narrowed it down to three, which we will now briefly examine:
1. Jesus died by crucifixion.
2. Jesus' followers truly believed that the risen Jesus had appeared to them.
3. People who were not followers of Jesus truly believed that the risen Jesus had appeared to them.
Fact 1: Jesus died by crucifixion. The previous chapter examined in detail the death of Jesus by crucifixion. More than any other issue about Jesus, historians are convinced that the death of Jesus is a historical fact.
Fact 2: Jesus’ followers really believed that the risen Jesus appeared to them. Historians are also convinced that Jesus’ followers came to believe that they had seen the risen Jesus. The reasons for this are many. First, the declaration appears early in church history. 1 Corinthians 15:3-7, the “flash of news” Christian creed that reports Jesus’ death a few years after his crucifixion, also includes a list of people to whom he appeared. The account reads: “Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and was buried, and was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures, and appeared to Peter, then to the twelve, then to more than five hundred brothers at that time, most of whom remain to the present, though some have fallen asleep in death. Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles.” According to the acclaimed and respected scholar James Dunn, “We can be quite certain that this tradition was codified as a tradition a few months after Jesus’ death.” The teachings that the early Christians chose to codify and pass on to one another included a list of people to whom the risen Jesus appeared. Not only is Peter first on this list, essentially making the announcement on his own authority, but the list says that Jesus appeared to five hundred people simultaneously. Second, the proclamation of Jesus’ resurrection is confirmed by eyewitnesses. For example, Paul, while recounting the above belief some twenty years after Jesus’ death, says that most of the five hundred eyewitnesses were still alive, as if to say, “If you want to talk to eyewitnesses of the risen Jesus, there are more than 250 to choose from! This follows the pattern recounted in Acts 10:40-41, where Peter emphasizes that they were eyewitnesses: “But God raised him up on the third day and made him manifest, not to all, but to witnesses chosen beforehand by him, to us who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead.” Of course, Luke reports other accounts that emphasize that there were eyewitnesses to Jesus’ resurrection, such as the first gospel proclamation found in Acts 2:32, which we have already noted: “This Jesus God raised up, and we are all witnesses of it.” To Paul, Peter, and Luke, we can add John’s emphasis on the testimony of the risen Jesus, recorded in John 21:24. Third, the disciples were willing to die for their belief that the risen Jesus had appeared to them. Of course, being willing to die for a belief does not make that belief true, but it almost always ensures its truthfulness. People often do not give up their lives for what they know to be false. In this case, the disciples were willing to die for what they claimed to have personally seen: the risen Jesus. Various eyewitness testimonies are found in recorded history, from the testimony of Stephen (Acts 7:60) and Including prominent disciples such as James the brother of John (Acts 12:2) and Peter himself (1 Corinthians 5:2-7). Having seen Jesus overcome death, they no longer feared it as they had in the Garden of Gethsemane. They truly believed that Jesus had risen. For these three reasons and more, the vast majority of scholars are convinced that Jesus’ followers truly believed that he had risen from the dead. Accordingly, Wedderburn has stated: “It is an indisputable historical fact that at times the disciples somehow came to believe that they had seen the risen Jesus.”
Fact 3: People who were not followers of Jesus actually believed that the risen Jesus appeared to them. Finally, there were some who did not follow Jesus and actually believed that Jesus had appeared to them after He had risen from the dead. The first and most important of these was Saul of Tarsus, also known as Paul. During the time of Jesus, Paul was a student of Rabbi Gamaliel, one of the Tanakh, the most influential teachers of the Oral Torah in history. According to tradition, Gamaliel was the grandson of the great Jewish teacher Hillel, the founder of the Jewish school of thought known as the House of Hillel. With such noble Jewish lineage, Paul began to persecute Christians and had the power and zeal to arrest them and even oversee their execution. However, something happened to Paul that caused him to join those who were persecuting him, even giving up his high Jewish position. According to Paul, the risen Jesus appeared to him. In the book of Acts, Luke shares Paul’s testimony three times, where he makes it clear that he believed because he saw the risen Jesus. Paul himself testifies to this in 1 Corinthians 15. For proclaiming that Jesus had risen from the dead, he was flogged five times, beaten three times with rods, stoned to death, and finally beheaded. Paul had many opportunities to change his mind or repent, but he gave up everything, including his own life, and testified that he had personally seen the risen Jesus. Another key figure who denied Jesus throughout his life but followed him after his crucifixion is James, the brother of Jesus. In Mark’s Gospel, we find Jesus’ brothers coming to gather him because they thought he had “gone out of his mind” (3:21, 31), and in John’s Gospel, Jesus’ brothers mock him so much that the Gospel says, “not even his brothers believed in him” (7:3-5). Even when Jesus was being crucified, his brothers did not come to support him, so that their mother Mary had to be entrusted to John’s care (John 19:26-27). But after Jesus’ crucifixion, we see his brothers counted among the believers (Acts 1:14). The creed in 1 Corinthians 15 tells us why: The risen Jesus appeared to James (v. 7), who later became the leader of the Jerusalem church (Galatians 1:19) before being executed by Annas the son of Annas. Four ancient sources report the execution of James, the brother of Jesus, including the Jewish historian Flavius Josephus. So in addition to the disciples, Paul and James—men who did not follow Jesus during their lifetimes—gave their lives for seeing the risen Jesus. “That the followers of Jesus, and later Paul, had resurrection experiences, is, in my opinion, a fact,” says Saunders, a self-described “liberal, modern, secularist.” David Catchpole, emeritus professor at the University of Exeter, adds: “James’s appearance… is not something that can be worked out from existing sympathy or commitment. In this respect it was not unlike what later happened to Paul.” Scholars Shanks and Witherington add: “It seems likely that James, like Paul, was converted to the Jesus movement because he saw the risen Jesus at some point, for nothing before Easter can explain his becoming such a follower of Jesus. Much less a leader of the followers of Jesus.”
From facts to arguments
Let us now at least summarize the facts. When we consider the life of Jesus, we can be fairly certain of three conclusions: Jesus died by crucifixion. Jesus’ followers truly believed that the risen Jesus appeared to them. And people who were not followers of Jesus truly believed that the risen Jesus appeared to them. Given that the historian’s job is to present a narrative model that makes the best sense of the historical record, what is the best historical conclusion about Jesus’ life? According to the minimal facts approach, the best explanation of the facts, by far, is that Jesus did indeed rise from the dead. Any other explanation ignores or strains the facts too much to be acceptable. For example, one of the most common alternative hypotheses is that the disciples were hallucinating about Jesus’ resurrection. It is a well-known medical phenomenon that people who have recently lost loved ones may hallucinate their presence. Could it be that the disciples, who had been following Jesus for years and deeply trusted that he would be their Messiah, were so desperate to see him again that they hallucinated his return? Jesus’ death by crucifixion (fact 1) certainly fits into this theory, but does the fact that Jesus’ followers actually believed they had seen the risen Jesus (fact 2) fit in? When we consider that he appeared first to Peter, then to the twelve, then to five hundred at a time, and then to James, it seems hard to account for all of these appearances as a mourning hallucination. There is certainly no equivalent for five hundred people having the same mourning hallucination at the same time. For that reason alone, this hypothesis is highly unlikely. Even if there were five hundred unprecedented people who had mourning hallucinations, it seems unlikely that any of them would be convinced that they had seen Jesus himself rather than a passing dream. But for the sake of argument, let us assume that the hallucination hypothesis explains Fact 2: His disciples really believed that he had risen, but what they actually saw was a hallucination. Even if this hypothesis has the benefit of the doubt, it simply does not account for Fact 3: people who did not follow Jesus really believed that he had appeared to them. Paul does not fit the psychological profile of someone who hallucinates Jesus’ return. He had no emotional attachment to Jesus and no hope for him, and Paul had everything to lose. Why would Paul hallucinate the risen Jesus? It is simply not true. So the hallucination hypothesis suppresses Fact 2 and does not fit Fact 3. It is not a plausible hypothesis. Another theory is that the body of Jesus was stolen by the disciples, and they proclaimed the message of the risen Jesus to prove their Messiahship, even though it was a hoax. Fact 1, the death of Jesus, fits this hypothesis, but fact 2 does not: the disciples really believed they had seen the risen Jesus. It is unlikely that Peter, James, Stephen, and the others died for a known lie, and certainly not on purpose. Of course, the same can be said for fact 3. Paul and James, men who had not followed Jesus during their lifetime, have no reason to have done this trick. The stolen body hypothesis fits neither fact 2 nor fact 3. It is not a likely hypothesis. The common Muslim response, as we saw in the previous chapter, is that Jesus did not die on the cross. This theory explains facts 2 and 3, but it is a direct contradiction of fact 1: that Jesus died by crucifixion. The proposition of this hypothesis, again, is a contradiction in terms. The theory does not fit fact 1. It is not a plausible hypothesis. The hypothesis that fits all the seven facts, and fits them well, is exactly what the disciples, along with others who were not disciples, declared: Jesus rose from the dead. This is the only explanation that fits the puzzle pieces together. The resurrection hypothesis explains facts 1, 2, and 3. Since it is the only hypothesis that explains the historical facts without suppressing or ignoring them, an objective observer must conclude that the resurrection of Jesus is by far the best explanation for the data.
Miracle and the eyewitness
At this point, most non-Christian Jesus scholars follow Sanders and say, “I don’t know what actually led to these experiences.” Since there is no possible natural explanation, they offer none. This is sufficient, except that it imposes a naturalistic bias—that we cannot conclude that a miracle occurred. I argue that an objective scholar should not have such a bias. We should be open to the idea, but be very cautious about jumping to the explanation of a miracle. It is important to note that in the previous chapter I said, “An objective observer should not conclude that a miracle occurred unless there is another plausible explanation, and even then only under certain circumstances.” In the case of Jesus’ resurrection, unlike the substitution theory or the Soven theory, there is no other plausible explanation. All other conclusions diminish credibility. Even so, it is still not enough for an objective observer to conclude that a miracle has occurred. We need certain conditions. Specifically, we need a context that contains supernatural expectations. For example, let’s imagine that a blind man, rummaging through the cupboard above him, accidentally knocks over a bottle and spills its contents. The oil spills on his head. As he wipes it off, he realizes that he can see again. Should he conclude that a miracle has occurred? I would argue that he should not. Although something extraordinary and inexplicable has occurred, one should not automatically conclude that all unusual and inexplicable events are miracles. Now imagine that this same blind man has prayed earnestly for years to regain his sight. One day, while praying, he becomes convinced that God is guiding him to go to the stranger’s house. After arguing with himself out loud because he had never heard from God before, he decides he has nothing to lose and goes to the house and knocks on the door. The owner of the house comes to the door, and as the man fumbles for words to explain who he is, the owner of the house says, “You don’t have to tell us who you are. My family and I were just praying together and we had a strong intuition that God was sending a blind man to us for healing, and we are praying for his sight to be restored and anointing his head with oil.” The blind man is sitting and as the family prays for his sight to be restored, they anoint him for healing. Oil is poured on his head. As he wipes it off, he realizes that he can see again. In this latter scenario, should the blind man conclude that a miracle has occurred? I argue that in the latter case, he is justified in concluding that a miracle occurred. Although the physical act in both scenarios is the same—the oil is poured on his head—the latter scenario is accompanied by supernatural expectations. Given the context, it is not unreasonable to conclude that he experienced a miracle. Furthermore, if the circumstances are open to investigation by the investigator, the investigator should also conclude that a miracle occurred. Let us imagine that the man’s prayer and argument with God were recorded on surveillance video, such as a family prayer meeting and anointing with oil, as a result of which the blind man can now see. An objective investigator not only can responsibly conclude that a miracle occurred, but it is his duty to do so. Otherwise, he is not objective, but he is introducing a naturalistic bias. Likewise, if an extraordinary and inexplicable event has occurred in history, and that extraordinary event is laden with supernatural expectations, and there are solid historical facts surrounding that event that have no other plausible explanation, a historian can reasonably conclude that a miracle did indeed occur.
Conclusion
As a Muslim watching Mike’s discussion, I had to agree that if Jesus had really died on the cross, there was very good reason to believe that he rose from the dead. Historically, these three facts are undeniable: Jesus died by crucifixion, his disciples really believed that he had risen, and even men who were not his disciples really believed that they had seen him. Nothing explains these facts without strain except the resurrection hypothesis, and even as objective observers, the spiritual context allows us to conclude that a miracle occurred. Along with the early church, history testifies that Jesus rose from the dead. But despite what history showed, I was still not convinced that Jesus really died on the cross. There was one other issue that I and the Muslim world around me found not only problematic but also deeply offensive.








Chapter 26
Islamic answer
It's all Paul's fault.

After Mike had at least presented the facts for Jesus’ resurrection, Shabir Elly stepped in to defend the Islamic position. He responded by essentially challenging Fact 1, stating that we cannot be certain that Jesus died by crucifixion. This was not only an understandable response based on 4.157 of the Quran, but was in fact the expected response. Muslims are generally less concerned with the supernatural implications of the resurrection than with Jesus’ physical death in the first place. Part of the reason for this is because, along with Christians, most Muslims believe in the ascension of Jesus. Immediately after denying Jesus’ death on the cross, the Quran states in 4.158, “But God raised him up to Himself.” Given this belief, the average Muslim would not immediately think of the resurrection as a problem, usually assuming it to be the result of a Christian misunderstanding that Jesus died on the cross. According to the average Muslim, yes, Jesus was raised to heaven, but no, he did not die on the cross first. It was not a resurrection, but an ascension. For these reasons, of the hundreds of Muslim-Christian conversations I have seen and participated in, first as a Muslim and then as a Christian, Muslims make a great effort to challenge Jesus’ death, but generally take the rest of the story for granted. The Intact Resurrection Apart from what was discussed in Chapter 22, there is no common response to the resurrection arguments, with one important exception.
Muslims and Paul
Since the Quran teaches that Jesus was a prophet and that his followers were righteous men, we have great respect for Jesus’ disciples. According to 3.52, the disciples responded to Jesus’ call to follow God in righteousness, and in 3.55, Allah promises to exalt Jesus’ followers and make them superior to others until the Day of Judgment. The opposite of Islamic teaching is Christianity, which teaches that God became a man and died on the cross for our sins—teachings that Muslims find unthinkable and blasphemous. So, from our perspective as a Muslim community, Christian teachings were corrupted. But when did they become corrupted? When we trace these beliefs, we find that they were the beliefs of the early churches. Therefore, Muslims must believe that somehow, in the disciples’ own time, the early church was infiltrated and its message corrupted. This must have been the work of someone powerful, someone other than the disciples. There is only one obvious figure who fits this description: Paul. This is why Paul’s motives, character, and authority have been called into question. It was Paul who took the religion that Jesus taught and turned it into a religion about Jesus. In a debate with Mike, Shabir Ali described mainstream Christianity as Paul’s invention. “Later Christianity followed Paul’s line,” Ali argues. “There was tension between Paul and the early disciples of Jesus and Jesus’ family, so Paul celebrated and Jesus’ family and disciples were despised.” Ali points out that Paul’s disagreements with Peter and James are evidence of a split in early Christianity that ultimately led to Paul’s version winning out. The second common and important argument is that Jesus told his disciples to keep the law, while Paul said the law had been abolished. Evidence for this position is found by highlighting Matthew 5:17, where Jesus says, “Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them.” This verse seems to imply that Jesus came to uphold the law, but Paul says in Romans 3:28, “For we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from the works of the law.” Thus, Muslims say that Paul contradicts Jesus. There are many other common challenges to Paul that Muslims offer, but the third and final one that we will address here is one of the most important. Muslims often argue that Paul never met Jesus and rarely comments on the historical Jesus in his letters. So Paul should not be concerned with who Jesus really was, but rather with making Jesus the Son of God, even God himself. This is just a quick attack on the reasons why Muslims distrust Paul, seeing him as a corrupter of true Christianity and the founder of a pagan religion that worships a man and ignores the law of God—mainstream Christianity today. This view is espoused by Muslim apologists and imams around the world, and it filters down relentlessly to ordinary Muslims like me. In fact, almost every Muslim-Christian conversation I have heard about early Christianity ends up deadlocked over Paul himself. It is hard to overstate how much Muslims distrust Paul and how much they hold him responsible for the form of Christianity we see today.
Conclusions from the Islamic Response to the Resurrection
Not only do Muslims disagree that Jesus actually died on the cross, they question the entire foundation of Christianity because a man who was not a disciple and had never even seen Jesus successfully infiltrated the ranks and hijacked the early church. The religion that Jesus taught became a religion about Jesus, and what was a religion of following God’s law and worshipping God alone became a religion that ignored the law and worshipped a man alongside God. Although Christianity was very similar to Islam in its beginnings, it is gone forever because of Paul.












Chapter 27
Assessing the Islamic response
Paul and the disciples from the right perspective

To be fair, the Muslim challenge to Paul is not entirely without reason. He is a very remarkable figure in the early church who has had an equally remarkable influence. Can we really trust Paul? If Paul never met Jesus before his crucifixion, how could he have accurately conveyed the religion that Jesus taught? Could modern Christianity possibly be the product of Paul? This question became popular in academic circles in the 1980s, and some Western scholars even answered it in the affirmative. Perhaps the most notable such answer was given by the Jewish scholar and playwright Hayam Maccoby in his 1986 book Mythmaker: Paul and the Invention of Christianity. Maccoby goes so far as to say that it was Paul who founded Christianity. Similar arguments were made by the equally distinguished Karen Armstrong, who favored many Muslim apologists, who said: “Paul not only had a significant influence on Christianity, but… in a real sense he was its founder. He could be called the first Christian.” Because of efforts like those, this view became a hot topic of debate in academic circles, but the dust quickly settled and the victory was decisive: Paul remained a follower of Christ, not the founder of Christianity. The scholarly consensus has remained the same ever since. All this being said, it goes without saying that this is a good question that deserves much more space than we have here to cover, so we will answer Paul’s question broadly and briefly. We will then examine the specific problem that this challenge to Paul poses for the Islamic view of Jesus’ disciples, before finally addressing this issue of Jesus’ resurrection.


Paul's Review
Part of the reason why almost no scholar today agrees with the common Muslim portrayal of Paul is that it portrays him as a usurping deceiver. I recall the imam at our mosque teaching us that Paul saw a power vacuum among the disciples after Jesus’ death, so he infiltrated the church and rose through the ranks to take the reins. The problem with this portrayal is obvious to those who know Paul’s background: as a student of Gamaliel, in the lineage of Hillel, he was far more confident of his power than he was in the persecuted church. He already had the authority to arrest heretics and preside over executions, and his power only increased. Instead, he chose the humble life of a persecuted man who toiled for his wages (Acts 18:3). This Islamic portrayal of Paul as a deceiver is also suspect, because Paul was honest enough to die for his faith. The account of his martyrdom comes a few years after the flogging, and scholars have no doubt about it. As we have already discussed, those who are willing to die for their beliefs may well be wrong, but they are almost certainly right. According to the record, Paul was flogged five times, beaten with rods three times, and even stoned until he was presumed dead before he was finally executed (2 Corinthians 11:24-25). If he had simply deceived the people, he would have had ten opportunities to repent before receiving life-threatening punishments. Would he not have stopped his rebellion? If he was going to lose his life, what would he gain by deceiving everyone? In fact, Paul gave up power, prestige, personal security, and even his own life. He gained nothing materially by following Jesus.
Paul, Jewish Law, and the Disciples' Authority
It is true that Paul had a dispute with Peter, as recorded in Galatians 2:11-14, but the reading of the text is important. Paul informs us that shortly after his conversion, he went to Peter and stayed with him for fifteen days. After sitting with Peter and sometimes James, the brother of Jesus, Paul traveled from city to city for fourteen years, proclaiming the gospel. Then, to make sure that he was still preaching according to the disciples’ teachings, he returned to Jerusalem and delivered his sermon to the disciples. After hearing him, Peter, James, and John confirmed him and sent him back to Antioch, saying that he should preach to the Gentiles while they preached to the Jews in Jerusalem. Throughout this time, Paul refers to the disciples as “pillars” of the church and “venerable pillars” (Galatians 2:6, 9). This discussion only occurs when Peter is in a new situation and acts with a double standard in order not to offend some people. After leaving Jerusalem, where he was a Jewish preacher and the church was full of Jewish believers, Peter went to Antioch in Syria, “the center of Gentile Christianity.” Peter was willing to eat with Gentiles because he no longer considered the Law binding (Galatians 2:12; Acts 10; 15:10-11). But when believers of Jewish background came to Antioch from Jerusalem, Peter did not want to offend them, so he stopped eating with Gentiles. This, significantly, caused problems in Antioch, and Paul corrected Peter for his double standard. It was Paul who first went to Peter and stayed with him and James. Later, Paul handed down what he taught to the disciples and continued to preach only when he received their approval. These are not the actions of one who wants to overthrow the church, but the actions of one who submits himself to the authority of the disciples. When it comes to Jewish law, it was Peter who declared his agreement to Paul’s ministry to the Gentiles, and it was Peter who did not consider Christians under the law, so much so that he ate with the Gentiles. The only criterion Paul used to argue with Peter was Peter himself: Peter was willing to eat with the Gentiles at one time, but at another time he refused to do so. Paul never tried to claim authority over Peter, but he challenged Peter with his own criteria: “If you, though you are a Jew, live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, how is it that you compel the Gentiles to live like the Jews?” (Galatians 2:14). According to the book of Acts, it was Peter himself who began preaching the gospel to the Gentiles. Acts chapter 10 shares the story of Peter’s vision of preaching to the Gentiles and then being led by God to Caesarea to do just that. While preaching to Cornelius and those with him, Peter says, “You yourselves know how unlawful it is for a Jew to associate with or visit a Gentile. But God has shown me that I should not call any man common or unclean” (Acts 10:28). This was the attitude that Peter alluded to in Acts 15:7-11 when Peter himself suggested that Gentiles not be bound by the law. So Paul does not rebel against Peter and James. Rather, he submits to their authority. When there is a need to correct Peter, Paul does not dare to invoke his own authority, but rather reminds Peter of his own standards. Finally, Paul is not the one who absolves Gentiles from following the law. That is, Peter, the very disciple who began the era of evangelization to the Gentiles.
Jesus came to fulfill the law.
So if Peter and Paul agree that people are not bound by the law, what are we to make of Jesus’ words in Matthew 5:17, which says: “Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them”? Does this mean that Jesus came to follow the Law and expects his followers to do the same? The first thing to note is that Jesus says that he has come to “fulfill” the Law and the Prophets. Not “to follow” but “to fulfill.” The Greek word here (pleroo) has the sense of being complete and ending. When someone does something, it is finished and no longer binding. For example, if we take out a loan, we are obligated to make regular payments, but after we have paid off our loan in full, our payments end. In the same sense, Jesus is saying: “Do not think that I have come to "To abolish the Torah and the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them." To say that “fulfilling” the law and the prophets means “following” the Jewish law is to misunderstand Matthew 5:17 and miss its meaning. Second, when the Jews referred to the law and the prophets in this way, they were referring to the books of the Old Testament, not the commandments of the Jewish law. Remember, the Hebrew Bible is made up of the law and the prophets and the writings. So Jesus is saying here that he came to fulfill the Old Testament, not to follow the commandments. Putting these insights together, we can understand this verse correctly: Jesus is saying that the Old Testament is being fulfilled in him. He is not abolishing it, but rather fulfilling it. The Old Testament is being fulfilled because Jesus has come. There is much more to say about these rich verses, especially since the verses immediately following Matthew 5:17 are sometimes thought to imply that Jesus expected people to follow the Jewish law. Follow. Close study shows that this is not the case. It should also be noted that in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus teaches some morals that directly contradict Jewish law, such as not swearing. Elsewhere in Matthew, Jesus says several times that he came to bring something new, not simply to follow the old (Matthew 9:16-17; 13:52). So Peter’s teaching that people are not bound by the law is a teaching that Paul consistently applies to Gentiles, and it is entirely consistent with Jesus’ message.
Paul and the Historical Jesus
The final challenge to Paul that we will address is the claim that Paul, having never seen Jesus, was less concerned with the historical Jesus than with making Jesus the Son of God, even God Himself. Although it is commonly assumed, it is not certain that Paul never saw Jesus during Jesus’ earthly ministry, for this is a conclusion based largely on silence. It is true that Paul does not often speak of the historical Jesus in the New Testament. But that does not mean that he was indifferent to the life of Jesus. Paul visited Peter for fifteen days after seeing the resurrected Jesus (Galatians 1:18). What, then, do we suppose, did Paul and Peter do during those two weeks? As scholar Dodd puts it: “We may suppose that they did not spend all their time talking about the weather. Paul learned about the historical Jesus while he sat under Peter. In fact, the word Paul uses for his meeting with Peter is historia, the Greek word from which the English word history is derived. He had a strong interest in the historical Jesus. So why don’t we see Paul talking more about the life of Jesus in his letters? In fact, he talks about the historical Jesus, especially in 1 Corinthians where he interprets the words of Jesus or discusses the life of Jesus a total of six times. Furthermore, some of the accounts Paul cites about the life of Jesus show that he knew more than he said in his letters, such as the words “on the night he was betrayed” (1 Corinthians 11:23). It is hard to imagine that Paul would have said these words without knowing what happened on the night of Jesus’ betrayal. Yet Paul never discusses the details in his letters. Which leads to the second most important point: Letters are not meant to be comprehensive, especially letters between close relationships. I have written fewer than a dozen letters to my wife, and if people read those letters assuming they contain everything I wanted to tell her, they would be sorely disappointed. My wife and I have a strong relationship, and we talk for hours every day. What is said in person will be left unsaid in written communication, and usually only the essentials are expressed in the letter, while the most consistent things have already been said in person. Similarly, Paul personally knew the people he wrote to and spent weeks, sometimes years, with them. To expect anything different from Paul’s letters is to impose unrealistic expectations. So we can conclude that Paul was very interested in the real life of Jesus, not just the theological Jesus. The question of whether Paul made Jesus the Son of God, or perhaps even God himself, will be fully explored in the next chapter.
Summarizing Paul
There is little reason to doubt Paul’s sincerity. He received his training from Peter and submitted to Peter’s authority. He followed Peter and taught that Gentiles did not need to keep the Law, a corollary of Jesus’ teaching in Matthew 5:17. Although Paul did not know Jesus during his ministry, we can be sure that Paul learned historical facts about Jesus from Peter and knew many things about him that he did not mention in his letters. The common Muslim claim that Paul hijacked Christianity, imposed his own teachings, and corrupted the true religion is not only inconsistent with the biblical record, but also historically unfounded and has very little scholarly support. But beyond that, there is a theological problem for Muslims who argue that Paul corrupted Christianity.
The problem from the Islamic perspective of Paul
The common Muslim view of Paul has significant problems, even when viewed from an Islamic perspective. First, what happened to the disciples? How were they so easily overcome by Paul that they were either persuaded by his trickery and followed him or their voices were completely silenced, with no record of their opposition? Was this outsider so much more powerful than Jesus that he could have thwarted all of Jesus’ work and teachings? As a Muslim, I have never seen an example of how this could have happened, and I have never heard one since I left Islam. The problem becomes even more acute when we review one of the Quranic verses that promises Jesus: “O Jesus, I will take you to Myself and raise you up to Myself and purify you from the [taint] of those who disbelieved, and I will make those who follow you above those who disbelieved until the Day of Resurrection” (3:55). Allah promises to give the apostles superiority over the unbelievers, and Jesus is delivered from such unbelievers. The Muslim view of Paul as having overpowered the disciples and hijacked the message of Jesus seems to ignore the Quranic promise to the disciples. But it says absolutely nothing, never so much as to mention his name. Given the central role that Muslims often think Paul played in the corruption of Christianity, the silence is deafening. Why does the Quran not mention him? Is it because of the omission of the Quran that Muslims in the early and classical period of Islam, such as Tabari and Qurtubi, considered Paul to be a follower of Jesus? In US criminal law, as elsewhere in the world, three aspects of a crime must be proven before a suspect can be found guilty: means, motive, and opportunity. The Islamic view that Paul hijacked Christianity does not guarantee any of these three. Paul could not have had the necessary means because Allah had promised to make the disciples invincible. There is no plausible motive for Paul to deceive the church, since his efforts only brought him persecution and a death sentence. And no model has been proposed to explain how Paul might have had the opportunity to overcome all the disciples and kidnap the church. Of course, not only must Paul be presumed innocent until proven guilty, but as far as this investigation is concerned, there is simply no evidence to convict him. The case is closed.
Refocusing on the Resurrection
Finally, let’s get back to the original question: Did Jesus rise from the dead? The truth is, even if we ignore Paul entirely, we still have good reason to think that Jesus did rise from the dead. The disciples repeatedly proclaimed Jesus’ resurrection in the book of Acts, and their belief that Jesus rose from the dead is the best explanation for their transformation from fearful followers in the Garden of Gethsemane to courageous martyrs at the hands of the Romans and others. They no longer feared death because Jesus had conquered death. The same is true of James, Jesus’ unbelieving brother, who was willing to pay the ultimate price after seeing the risen Jesus. These accounts are found in the Gospels, Acts, John, 1 Peter, Hebrews, 1 Corinthians, Josephus, and elsewhere. To argue effectively against the resurrection from an Islamic perspective, one must do more than discredit the Pauline accounts. The resurrection of Jesus engulfed the disciples. It was their initial catalyst, their central message, their driving belief, and their ultimate hope. To deny this through an Islamic perspective, a perspective that honors Jesus and the disciples as men of God, is to ignore everything we know about the birth of the church.




Chapter 28
Conclusion
Jesus rose from the dead.

At the end of the debate, my friend David and I discussed what we thought about the Christian defense of the resurrection and the Islamic critique. We ended up sitting in his car in the parking lot for a few hours, processing our thoughts and thinking about the arguments. There was no question in my mind that Shabbir Ali was the more eloquent speaker and debater, and he was excellent at engaging the crowd. But when I examined the arguments carefully, even as a Muslim, I had to conclude that Mike’s minimal facts approach was more convincing than Shabbir’s critique. History seemed to definitely testify that Jesus died by crucifixion, that his followers sincerely believed that he rose, and even some who were not his followers sincerely believed that they had seen him. Mike suggested that the best explanation for these historical facts was that Jesus rose from the dead. Shabbir offered no better alternative. Instead, Shabbir tried to dismiss the data that did not fit the Islamic view: the death of Jesus and the trustworthiness of Paul. When we consider the arguments that Muslims commonly use to discredit Paul’s testimony, we find that they are very problematic. There is no reason to think that Paul was not sincere. The evidence shows that he submitted to the authority of the disciples, that Peter was the one who suggested to the new Christians that they not be bound by the law. And in fact it was Peter, James, and John who extended their hands to Paul in his ministry to the Gentiles. The common Islamic description of Paul as the one who hijacked Christianity not only ignores the promises of Allah in the Quran, but also provides no motive or means for Paul’s corruption of the church, and this requires a complete disregard for the records of the early church. So in answering the question I had asked myself, “Would an objective observer conclude that Jesus rose from the dead?” I had to admit that Jesus’ resurrection was indeed the best explanation for the historical facts. Mike’s explanation of the evidence was far more convincing than Shabbir’s selective rejection of the evidence. But just as when I researched the death of Jesus, the conclusion did not force me to abandon Islam. I believed that my Islamic faith was proven by other means, and that the Christian faith still had at least one fatal flaw: Jesus never claimed to be God. This was a critical point for me. As far as I was concerned, Jesus’ death and resurrection were important issues to consider, but whether Jesus claimed to be God was the real game-changer. I was prepared to go to any lengths to defend my faith and prove that he did not.



















Part 8
Did Jesus claim to be God?












Chapter 29
Positive case
Jesus was always God.

Nowhere is the gap between Christian and Islamic theology wider than over the person of Jesus. For Muslims, the doctrine of a divine Christ is blasphemy, and the Quran teaches that whoever accepts it will build his house in the flames of hell (5:72). For Christians, faith in the divinity of Christ is essential to salvation (Romans 10:9). What wider divergence could there be? As a Muslim in the West, I proudly saw myself as a true monotheist who honored Jesus. In contrast, the Christians around me, whether they were unwittingly or knowingly, were blaspheming the one true God and insulting Jesus. All other differences between Muslims and Christians were secondary to me, far less important than this one most important issue. In fact, I even boldly told Christians that Islam was superior to Christianity on this very issue. This was the slogan we heard in the mosques: “Islam is the true monotheism.” The Quran tells Muslims that Jesus never claimed to be God. Instead, people began to believe this after Jesus left the earth (5:116-117). So we believed that later Christians were responsible for the corruption of true Christianity. Knowledgeable people in our mosque told me that Roman paganism had influenced Christian thought, as Roman gods often had sons who were demigods. Other Muslims argued that the Council of Nicaea was responsible for Jesus’ death, while others accused Paul of this blasphemy. Regardless of the exact model, most of us believed that the Bible does not even portray Jesus as God, and certainly Jesus never claimed to be God himself.
But did he? If we set aside our Islamic beliefs and ask this question as objective observers, would we conclude that Jesus claimed to be God? Based on my own experience, the answer is a revolutionary and surprising yes. More than anything else, exploring this question has changed my life forever. My biggest opponent in discovering the answer was my own will. I didn’t want to see Jesus’ claim to divinity in the pages of history, so I kept backing down and shifting my stance to avoid what was becoming more and more apparent. While I can’t track every point of this internal fencing competition, I will provide the conclusion of each major contest.
Does the New Testament teach that Jesus is God?
At first, I wasn’t sure if the New Testament anywhere said that Jesus was God. I remember watching a Muslim speaker named Hamza Abdulmalik challenge Christians by saying that this doctrine is not found anywhere in the Bible. But then I watched a debate between him and James White, a Christian presenter, and the issue was completely resolved: Apart from anything that could potentially be hidden, 2 Peter 1:1 calls Jesus “God and Savior,” as does Titus 2:1-13.
Do the Gospels Teach That Jesus Is God?—The Gospel of John
Muslims certainly have no allegiance to the Bible, or even the New Testament. The Quran says that the Gospels were revealed as the word of God. I quickly made my case that, regardless of what other books of the Bible say, Jesus is not God in the Gospels. It was then that my friend David pointed me to the Gospel of John. There is no doubt that Jesus is presented as God in this Gospel. From the very beginning, John declares unequivocally that Jesus is God, that he has always existed, and that he is the instrument of all creation (1:1-3). Thus, the first three verses of John’s Gospel present Jesus as “the eternal God by whom the worlds were made.” John’s introduction ends by calling Jesus “the only God” (1:18). As John’s Gospel progresses, the Christology becomes more packed and detailed. Jesus is worthy of God’s honor (5:23). He asks people to believe in him as they believe in God (14:1). He claims to be able to save (5:21) and the earthly manifestation of God (14:8). He is the king of another world (18:36-37). He rules over all things (3:35). And he claims to be able to do whatever people ask in his name after he is gone, more or less meaning that he is omniscient, omnipotent, and omnipresent (14:13). Furthermore, he advises his opponents that his identity is central to salvation (8:24) and that he always existed before Abraham (8:58), in both cases using the divine name Yahweh from the Old Testament, “I am.” In what some consider the climax of the Gospel, a disciple realizes who he is and cries out in affirmation, “My Lord and my God!” to which Jesus responds, “Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed” (20:28-29). The climax of the Gospel of John is when a disciple declares that Jesus is God, and Jesus praises his affirmation. From beginning to end, the Gospel of John presents Jesus as God. This discovery struck a blow to my Islamic faith. If Jesus really did claim to be God, then the Quran must have been wrong about Jesus, which in turn meant that Islam was a lie. I couldn’t accept this, so I had to find a way out.
Do the Gospels Teach That Jesus Is God?—The Beginning of Mark’s Gospel
After some research, I found out that there was a famous scholar named Bart Erman who criticized Christianity and argued that the Gospel of John was unreliable. “Jesus is, without a doubt, portrayed as divine in the Gospel of John,” Erman says. But since John was written sixty years after Jesus, it doesn’t have to be accurate. The belief that Jesus was God was invented after his death, in the decades between Jesus and the writing of the Gospel of John. That’s why it’s not found in the other gospels. If Jesus himself had claimed to be God, why would we have to wait until the fourth gospel to hear about it? That Jesus became divine after his death was something we as Muslims believed, and I found Islamic websites that regularly quoted Erman. I decided to take his approach, arguing that if Jesus really did claim to be God, we would have taught about his divinity in the first of the four gospels, Mark. So I decided to show David that Mark presented Jesus as just a man, not God, and I immersed myself in the Gospel of Mark. The more I learned about Mark, the more I realized that it was a very Jewish gospel, written with the Old Testament in mind. The book refers to Jewish sources more than seventy times, with a strong preference for the book of Isaiah, and never once does it explicitly refer to a Greco-Roman source. When I read Mark through that lens, with Hebrew glasses, I realized that Armen was sorely mistaken. Not only does Mark present Jesus as God, but the main point of Mark’s Gospel is that Jesus is Jehovah. Mark begins by quoting a passage from the Old Testament: Isaiah 40:3-5. In that passage, “a voice of one crying in the wilderness, ‘Prepare the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God… Then the glory of the Lord will appear.’” So Isaiah prophesies that Jehovah, the God of Israel, will appear and a voice in the wilderness will announce his coming. Mark tells us in 1:4 that John the Baptist is that voice in the wilderness and that the one whom John announced his coming was Jesus. In other words, Mark equates Jehovah with Jesus, saying: We have been waiting for a man to announce the coming of Jehovah, our God. John the Baptist is that man, and he announced the coming of Jesus. In fact, Mark combines his reference to Isaiah 40:3-5 with Malachi 3:1, where the text explicitly states that the messenger (again John the Baptist) will appear in the presence of God himself in his temple. As Isaiah alludes, he equates God with Jesus. For added emphasis, Malachi ends a few verses later with the statement that if the Israelites do not accept the messenger, God himself will come. Thus, Mark, at the very beginning of his Gospel, uses numerous Old Testament sources to equate Jehovah with Jesus. To the Jewish reader, Mark’s introduction is very similar to John’s: he declares that Jesus is God himself. Mark continues in 2:3-10, telling us that Jesus forgave the sins of the paralyzed man. The scribes on the scene thought to themselves, “He is blaspheming. Who but God can forgive sins?” To the Jews, blasphemy is an accusation that someone disrespects him, usually by saying the name Jehovah or claiming divine status for themselves. Clearly, Jesus did not blaspheme God here, nor did he utter the divine name. Their accusation of blasphemy can only mean that Jesus considered himself God by claiming the divine privilege of forgiving sins. In response, far from denying that he claimed to be God, Jesus demonstrated his power to forgive sins by healing the paralytic. This not only demonstrated his spiritual authority, but it also reminded the scribes, who knew the Hebrew Scriptures well, of Psalm 103:2-3, which says: “Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits; for he has forgiven all your sins.” "He will forgive you, and heal all your diseases!" When the scribes accuse Jesus of claiming to be God, instead of denying it, he goes even further by healing a paralytic, thereby doing something that only Jehovah in the Psalms does. Later in the same chapter, Jesus says, referring to himself, “The Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath” (Mark 2:28). Until we know the Old Testament well, it is easy to miss the fact that the Sabbath is the fourth of the Ten Commandments (Exodus 20:8). When Jesus refers to himself as Lord of the Sabbath, he is claiming lordship over the Ten Commandments, even though there is only one Lord: Jehovah. In Mark 4:35-41, we find the distressed disciples in the midst of a storm with waves so high on the water that they are breaking the boat and starting to fill it. In the midst of the trouble, they call out to Jesus. Jesus He rebukes the wind and says to the waves, “Peace! Be still!” Then the wind ceases, and there is a great calm (v. 39). The disciples ask themselves in amazement, “Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?” (v. 41). Now, we must understand that Mark expects us to answer these rhetorical questions by turning to the Old Testament. In Psalm 107:25-30, men are so dangerous in a stormy sea that their courage melts and their reason fails. “Then they cry to the Lord in their trouble, and he brings them out of their distress. He makes the storm calm and still, and the waves of the sea are still” (vv. 28-29).
So in the Old Testament, when people are at sea in a storm and are afraid of death, they call upon the Lord to calm the storms and still the waves. In Mark, when the disciples are at sea in a storm and are afraid of death, they call upon Jesus to calm the storms and still the waves. Mark again identifies Jesus with Jehovah. In another seafaring passage, Mark 6:45-52, the disciples are struggling to row against the wind. In the midst of the stormy waves, Jesus walks toward them on the water. For those who know the Old Testament, the allusion is clear: in Job 9:8, when Job speaks of Jehovah, he says: “He stretches out the heavens by himself, and treads on the waves of the sea.” What Job says only Jehovah can do, Mark shows Jesus to do. After discussing the highlights of Mark 1-6, we see that Mark’s effort is clear: He portrays Jesus as Jehovah. But despite the clarity and numerous allusions, I was still not convinced. What convinced me that Mark portrays Jesus as Jehovah was the climax of the gospel—the trial of Jesus.
Do the Gospels Teach That Jesus Is God?—The Climax of Mark
In Mark 14:55-64, Jesus is brought before the high priest and the religious leaders. Those who have brought Jesus to this trial have been seeking his destruction since the beginning of his ministry (3:6). They hope to incriminate him through his words against the temple, but without sufficient witnesses or a solid charge against him, the trial is underway (14:55-59). The high priest then stands up and demands that Jesus tell them who he is. It seems that the high priest hopes that Jesus can be incriminated through his claims of identity. When Jesus answers, he gives the religious leaders more than they had hoped. Jesus’ words are: “I am, and you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power and coming with the clouds of heaven.” If we do not know the Old Testament, the meaning of his words will not be clear to us, but to the Jewish religious scholars, it was so clear that they condemned him to death for blasphemy. What exactly did Jesus say? In Mark 14:62, Jesus makes a double reference to the Old Testament, claiming Jehovah’s privileges and position for himself. The first reference is to Daniel. Jesus quotes from Daniel 7:13-14, an apocalyptic vision of the prophet Daniel, which says: “I was watching in the night visions, and behold, one like the Son of Man was coming with the clouds of heaven. And he came to the Ancient of Days, and they brought him before him. And there was given him dominion and glory and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion that will not pass away, and his kingdom will not be destroyed.” In this passage from Daniel, a being who appears to be human (one like a son of man) approaches God. Although he appears human, his entrance is on the clouds—the entrance reserved in the Old Testament for Jehovah. Then the one who is like the Son of Man is given dominion, glory, and an eternal kingdom, although it is assumed that only God will have dominion and glory in the eternal kingdom. Finally, the passage says that all people will serve the Son of Man, but the word serve, whether in Aramaic or Greek, always indicates service to God. Thus, Daniel 7 presents the Son of Man riding on the clouds, as only Jehovah can. Then he receives dominion and eternal glory over his kingdom, as only Jehovah has. There all people will serve him with a divine service, as only Jehovah deserves. The Son of Man in Daniel 7 is a divine human son. Throughout Mark’s Gospel, beginning at 2:10, Jesus calls himself “the Son of Man,” although he never explicitly defines what he means by the term. In Mark 14:62, the climax of the Gospel, Jesus finally reveals to everyone who he is by quoting Daniel 7:13-14: He is the Son of Man in Daniel 7. He is Jehovah. But claiming the title “Son of Man” was not his only act of blasphemy against the religious scholars. Jesus also says that he has the right to sit on God’s throne, as if to remove all doubt. When he says that they will see the Son of Man “sitting at the right hand of the Mighty One,” he is referring to Psalm 110:1, which says: “The Lord said to my Lord, ‘Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool.’” Sitting at the right hand of God was a right that no one had dared to claim or ascribe to anyone else up to this point in the history of Second Temple Judaism. It entailed sitting on the throne of God and was equal to it. It claimed to be the heir of God, one who shares in the sovereignty with God. According to one scholar of the Psalms, “sitting at the right hand of God,”… has a very specific meaning: “The king shares in the rule. In this position of honor, in the structure of the power of God, he participates in the strength of Jehovah in battle and victory.” After learning all this, I understood why the religious scholars wanted to crucify Jesus for blasphemy. When Jesus claimed from Daniel 7 that he was the Son of Man and from Psalm 110 that he was the Lord of David, “both claims imply divine position, authority, and power.” In answer to the question, Who are you? Jesus’ response is essentially: “I am the one who deserves eternal worship from all humanity in my kingdom, where I will sit on the throne of God. I am Jehovah.” After reading Mark through the lens of Jewish scripture, I could no longer avoid the obvious. From introduction to climax, Mark’s Gospel is a statement of Jesus’ divinity. The first biography of Jesus ever written is designed to teach that Jesus is Jehovah.
Was Jesus God before the Gospel?
Although I was shocked to find the divinity of Jesus even in the earliest Gospels, that was only because I was looking for this teaching as a Muslim, and Muslims tend to focus on the Gospels. If I had paid more attention to the chronology of the New Testament, I would not have been surprised. The vast majority of scholars believe that Christians taught the deity of Jesus before Mark in our earliest Christian writings: the letters of Paul. In 1 Corinthians 8:6, Paul divides the Jewish Shema into two parts. The Jewish declaration of one God is presented as two persons, God the Father and the Lord Jesus. Also, in Romans 9:5, Paul says that Jesus is “God over all, to whom be thanks forever.” But the most interesting of these is certainly Philippians 2:
Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus: Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God: but made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a servant, and being made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Therefore God also highly exalted him, and gave him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven, and of those on earth, and of those under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. — Verses 5-11
This piece, Carmen Christi, is called the “Hymn of Christ,” and its Christology is one of the highest that can be found. At the beginning of the text, it predates Jesus’ existence in the form of God, his ability to decide and act before the incarnation, and even his own hand in being born on earth. Thus the beginning of Carmen Christi makes it clear that Jesus is God incarnate. It then describes the future, when every knee will bow and every tongue will confess to the Lordship of Jesus. The type of Lordship of Jesus is the Lordship of Jehovah, for these are the words that Jehovah uses of himself in one of the most powerful monotheistic verses of the Old Testament: “I am God, and there is no God besides me... Every knee shall bow to me, and to me every tongue shall swear allegiance” (Isaiah 45:22-23). Once again, we find the first passages of the New Testament replacing Jesus with God. But how early is this passage, and is Paul really the author? The scholarly consensus is that this passage is not something Paul himself wrote, but rather that he quoted it. Beginning largely with the work of Ernest Lemayer in 1928, scholars have argued that this is a hymn that uses non-Pauline vocabulary and grammatical structure. The vocabulary in parts of this hymn is so strange that it is often found nowhere else in the New Testament. Not a single word is found anywhere else in the Greek language. Lemayer concluded that the hymn was written in Greek by a man other than Paul, whose native language was Semitic. Since then, others have agreed, and some have even argued that the hymn was originally written in Aramaic and later translated into Greek. These and other reasons combine to lead scholars to conclude that the hymn was composed in the late 1300s. So not only Paul, but the pre-New Testament church, perhaps as early as the Aramaic-speaking church, attributed the identity of Yahweh to Jesus.
Conclusion of the Positive Case for the Deity of Jesus
As I finished my research on the divinity of Jesus, I realized that every layer of Christian doctrine presents Jesus as divine. It cannot be argued that the divinity of Jesus was a late invention, a development of Christology. Not only does the Gospel of John present Jesus as divine, but even the Gospel of Mark and the writings of Paul present Jesus as Jehovah. The earliest evidence, probably from the same decade as Jesus’ crucifixion, identifies Jesus with Jehovah. For the early Christians, Jesus is more than a prophet, more than a Messiah, and more than a divine person. He is Jehovah himself.



Chapter 30
Islamic answer
Did Jesus really say "I am God"?

When I learned to read the New Testament in light of the Old Testament, I was able to see the divinity of Jesus clearly in its pages, but it took me years to get to that point as a Muslim. Although the Quran affirms that both the Torah and the Gospel are inspired, Muslims are not encouraged to know each in detail, so rather than reading the Bible on its own terms, we read it through the lens of the Quran and Islamic teachings. That is why, until I rejected the divinity of Christ, I was not only prone to it, highlighting verses that seemed to challenge the doctrine, but I also expected Jesus to say certain things and speak in certain ways if he truly claimed to be God. These two challenges were my main arguments against Christians: there are many verses in the Bible that seem to deny the divinity of Jesus, and Jesus never clearly says, “I am God.” These were collectively my most compelling reasons for doubting Jesus' claim to be God, and they are the same arguments used by most Muslims today.
Verses that deny the divinity of Jesus
Thanks to the work of Ahmed Deedat and other Muslim apologists, there are many verses from the Gospels that Muslims readily use to argue that Jesus explicitly denies divinity. One of my favorites was John 17:3 because it sounded very Islamic in its declaration: “And this is eternal life, that they might know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent.” Like the testimony, this verse also declares the existence of one God and the messenger whom he has sent. Obviously, the messenger is inferior and separate from the sender. As far as I was concerned, this verse showed that Jesus’ teachings were very similar to Islam, and that he denied being God and said that the Father was the “only true God.” Another verse that I often used because of its sheer clarity was John 14:28: “The Father is greater than I.” How can Jesus be God if the Father is greater than him? This shows that Jesus is both separate from and inferior to God. Another verse to a similar effect is Mark 10:18: “Why do you call me good? No one is good except one, God alone.” Jesus again distinguishes himself from God and makes it clear that he is inferior. As we as Muslims would expect, there are texts in the Gospels that show Jesus praying to God (Mark 1:35) and that people should worship only God (Matthew 4:10). Mark 14:36 ​​seems to show Jesus praying to the Father in despair, saying, “Abba, Father, all things are possible for you. Take this cup away from me; nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will.” Not only does Jesus pray to God, but he seems to emphasize that all things are possible for the Father, not for Jesus, and that Jesus is completely dependent on Him. Regarding this dependence, Jesus says that he can do nothing apart from God: “Amen, amen, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of himself, but what he sees the Father doing” (John 5:19). His inability to do anything on his own is revealed again in Mark 6:5, when he returns to Nazareth and “could not do any mighty work there.” Indeed, Jesus could not even prophesy without God’s intervention, for he said: “No one knows that day or hour except the Father, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son” (Mark 13:32). We have repeatedly argued that Jesus is portrayed as a human being and that the term “Son of God” does not imply divine office. Adam (Luke 3:38), David (Psalm 2:7), Solomon (1 Chronicles 28:6), and even unnamed strangers (Genesis 6:2) were called “sons of God.” In fact, the Bible taught that even we can become children of God (Romans 8:14, Galatians 3:26). Therefore, Jesus was “Son of God” in the same human sense. Finally, Jesus must have been just a human being, for He ate (John 21:12), cried (John 11:35), slept (Mark 4:38), was hungry (Matthew 4:2), was thirsty (John 4:7), and even got tired (John 4:6). Can God really get hungry, thirsty, and tired? Of course God cannot, and therefore Jesus is not God. Also, he called himself a prophet (Luke 4:24), not God. The issue is resolved when we consider his preferred term for himself: “Son of Man.” By using this title, Jesus emphasized that he was only a man, not God.

Jesus never explicitly says, "I am God."
In addition to pointing out verses that seemed to deny Jesus’ divinity and establish his humanity, I often challenged Christians by pointing out that he never actually said, “I am God.” If Jesus were God, why didn’t he just come out and say it? God certainly boldly declared his divinity in the Old Testament with verses like “I am God, and besides me there is no other” (Isaiah 45:5). Christians argue that Jesus is the same God who makes the bold declaration in Isaiah 45. In fact, there seems to have been a specific situation where some Jews interpreted Jesus to mean that he was God, but Jesus dispels this misinterpretation (John 10:33-36). The Jews said, “You are making yourself God,” and Jesus replied, “Is it not written in your Torah, ‘I said, you are gods’?… Why then do you accuse me of blasphemy because I said, ‘I am the Son of God?’” When people think that Jesus is claiming to be God, he tries to clarify the situation by explaining that many people in the Old Testament were called “gods” and therefore it is not wrong for Jesus to call himself the “Son of God.” If he really was God, why didn’t he say in that example, “Yes, I claim to be God?” Why would he never say that? Clearly, he did not claim to be God.
Claims of Divinity and the Historical Jesus
These were the initial arguments I presented against the divinity of Jesus, arguments that I had been taught by the Muslim community, and I was sure that they were powerful. Later, as I progressed in my understanding of the response to these arguments, I presented another challenge that was more subtle and complex: Even if it could be shown in the Gospels that Jesus claimed to be God, what reason do we have to think that this refers to the real Jesus? In other words, even if John portrays a divine Jesus, can we really think that Jesus claimed to be God himself? The same is true of the earlier New Testament writings, such as Mark and Paul. Even if they wanted to show that Jesus claimed to be God, perhaps they invented it? Given the evidence, and given the concept itself, the belief that Jesus claimed to be God is simply ridiculous.

Conclusion of the Muslim response
As Muslims, this was an area where we were very certain: Jesus never claimed to be God. He never claimed to be, and there are many verses where he denies that and teaches that there is only one God. There is no God but One, and Jesus is only His messenger.











Chapter 31
Assessing the Islamic response
Let the context speak.

Some verses presented in isolation challenge the belief in the divinity of Jesus, but here’s the problem: verses are not meant to be taken in isolation. More than the interpretation of the Quran, verses in the Bible depend on their context for proper interpretation. Paying attention to the context of the verses and looking more closely at the doctrine of the divinity of Jesus will resolve many of the challenges Muslims face. To address the whole answer, we will also consider Mark’s messianic mystery and the possibility that Jesus’ claim to be God is rooted in Jesus himself.
Considering the context of the text
When I was a Muslim, I used many verses from the Gospel of John to challenge the divinity of Jesus, such as “The Father is greater than I” and “The Son can do nothing of himself.” As I became more familiar with the Gospel, I began to see a fundamental problem: John introduced his Gospel by declaring that Jesus was God, as we discussed in chapter 30, and he ended his Gospel with the climactic statement of one of the disciples that Jesus was God (John 20:28). In between, there were many verses that glorified Jesus and gave him honor only for God’s sake. This is why even skeptical scholars like Bart Ehrman say that Jesus is portrayed as God in the Gospel of John. How could I use verses from the Gospel of John to deny the divinity of Jesus when that Gospel as a whole definitely declared that Jesus was God? It would be dishonest to take verses out of context to suit my purposes, rather than see what they really say. It was this realization that led me to change my approach to the Bible. Instead of looking for verses in the text that I could use to support my Islamic positions, I began to read each verse carefully for the meaning it was trying to convey. This meant understanding the verses in light of each other and putting the pieces of the puzzle together. How can the Gospel of John call Jesus Lord and God (John 20:28) and say that the world was created through him (John 1:3), while also saying that “the Father is greater than Jesus” (John 14:28) and that Jesus can do nothing except the Father (John 5:19)? A proper understanding of the Gospel of John must explain all of these verses, not just some of them. The way to account for them, the way the Christians of Nicea and Chalcedon did for them, is to know that Jesus is God, the Father is God, the two are not the same, but there is only one God. In other words, the only way to explain the teachings of the Gospel of John is through a monotheistic model with multiple persons: a Trinitarian model. In this model, the Father is greater than Jesus and Jesus does nothing outside the will of the Father, but the Father and Jesus are both God. A pertinent question that Muslims often ask is: “How can Jesus be God if the Father is greater than him?” The question is easy to answer with an illustration. When I compare myself to the President of the United States, I do not hesitate to say that the President is greater than me. He is in charge of the entire nation and one of the most powerful men in the world, while I am just an ordinary citizen. So the President is greater than me, much greater. But we are both equally human. The President is in his essence just a man, just as I am, and in that sense we are equal. So when I say, “The President is greater than me,” I am referring to his office, not his essence. In position, he is greater than me. In essence, we are equal. Likewise, when Jesus says, “The Father is greater than I,” that does not mean that Jesus is not God. The Father has a different role, a higher position than Jesus, but that does not mean that the Father is greater in his essence. Both are equal in principle. Both are God.
Reconsidering the Doctrine of the Divinity of Jesus and the Trinity
A proper understanding of the doctrine of Jesus’ divinity resolves many Islamic arguments, even those that use the texts of Mark, Matthew, and Luke. The fact that Jesus was hungry and thirsty does not challenge Jesus’ divinity, because Christians believe in the ultimate unity we discussed in Chapter 10—that Jesus has a divine nature and a human nature, meaning that he was truly human and truly hungry. God can indeed be a prophet. Since God can come into the world according to Judeo-Christian teachings, he can have a human nature and be both God and man. There is nothing reciprocal about his humanity and his divinity. I remember resisting this argument when I first encountered it as a Muslim. Surely, to be God is to be unlimited, while to be human is to be limited. How can someone be both limited and unlimited at the same time? For example, God knows everything, and Jesus did not know everything (Mark 13:32). How can Jesus be God? The Christian answer, found in Philippians 2, is that God voluntarily limited the expression of his divinity when he became man. Yes, theoretically Jesus could have known everything while He was on earth, but He did not do so because “who, being in the form of God, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped, but emptied Himself, taking the form of a servant, and being made in the likeness of men.” (Philippians 2:6-7) He voluntarily limited Himself and became a true man so that as a man He could atone for the sins of man. That is why He was a true man. Jesus was born. He could grow in wisdom and stature. He was dependent on the Father and therefore could pray to the Father. This is not “God praying to Himself,” as some claim, because the Son is not the Father. There are two people here, two I’s. Although there are many verses that I have used to challenge the divinity of Jesus as a Muslim, these two explanations resolve almost all of them: the context of the verses and understanding the doctrine of the hypostatic union.
Why didn't Jesus say, "I am God"?
Understanding the Messianic Mystery
Muslims ask a good question when they ask why Jesus did not boldly and openly declare his divinity, but a good answer is readily available: he did not want to immediately declare his identity. This is clearly stated at the beginning of Mark’s Gospel. When Jesus was casting out demons, “he did not permit the demons to speak, because they knew who he was” (Mark 1:34). Mark is clear that Jesus wanted to keep his identity a secret for a time. There were several reasons for this. When people came to learn about Jesus, they gathered around him so much that he could no longer go out into the cities (Mark 1:45). Also, when the Pharisees and Herodians began to see what Jesus was doing and claiming, they began to plot how they could kill him (Mark 3:6), but Jesus did not want to be killed until the right time. When Jesus and the disciples discussed this, he explained to them why he wanted to keep his identity a secret: “For the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again” (8:31). So Jesus did not want to publicly announce his identity. This is known among scholars as the “messianic mystery.” When the days of his death and ascension drew near, he went straight to Jerusalem (Luke 9:51). It was then that he was arrested and taken to the religious teachers to be questioned about his identity. As a Muslim, I did not accept this until I noticed something amazing. Both Muslims and Christians agree that Jesus is the Messiah, but Jesus publicly declared that he was the Messiah only once in the Gospels. That is at one point in his trial before the religious teachers, the same passage where Jesus claims to be God.
To reiterate, the one time in the Gospels that Jesus publicly claimed to be the Messiah was the same time that he publicly claimed to be God. Since Muslims believe that Jesus Christ is the Messiah, even if he publicly declared it only once, we cannot expect him to declare his divinity more or more boldly. He was not in the business of declaring his identity over and over again. He chose to wait for the right moment. Also, although Jesus did not often declare his identity publicly, the Gospels inform their readers of his identity through the narrative of the text. For example, Mark 1:1 identifies Jesus as the Son of God; Mark 1:11 shows God Himself as Jesus’ Son. Verse 3:11 shows a demon claiming that Jesus is the Son of God. By showing spirit beings proclaiming Jesus’ Sonship, Mark is able to let his readers know that Jesus is not a mere mortal, allowing readers to share the secret even before Jesus’ public announcement at the trial. As discussed in the previous chapter, Mark uses other devices to let the perceptive reader know that Jesus is more than human. He uses arguments, such as the public forgiveness of the paralyzed man’s sin (2:5). He uses claims of sovereignty, such as his sovereignty over one of the Ten Commandments (2:28). He shows Jesus performing miracles that only God should be able to do, such as calming the seas (4:38-39) and walking on water (6:48). Throughout his gospel, Mark prepares the reader for the moment when the messianic secret will be revealed, when Jesus will tell everyone who he really is and will tie all his words and actions together. This makes 14:62, the climax and revelation of God, all the more powerful and important to understand. It is there that Jesus claims from Psalm 110:1 that the divine Son of Man of Daniel 7 and the one who sits on God’s throne are both Jesus’ most powerful declarations of divinity in the Gospels, and also anchor our confidence that Jesus actually used these terms.
Assessing historical accuracy
Historically, what is strong about Jesus’ claims against religious scholars is that they pass the most rigorous scientific standards for historical accuracy. The title “Son of Man” is used more than eighty times in the four Gospels, almost always by Jesus himself, on multiple occasions. Scholars are certain that Jesus actually used the term for himself, because there was no widespread expectation that Christ would be the Son of Man. Moreover, early Christians did not actually refer to Jesus as the Son of Man. Why do all four Gospels show Jesus calling himself the Son of Man, when no one expected Christ to speak in this way and when people later did not actually refer to him in these terms? The most plausible reason is that he did in fact use the title. Thus, it passes the most rigorous standard of historical scrutiny, the standard of dissimilarity. That Jesus called himself the Son of Man is virtually certain. Likewise, there can be no doubt that Jesus, the Lord of David, is considered to be the one who sits on the throne of God in the early history of Christianity. This is the most common Old Testament phrase in the New Testament, deeply rooted in the Christian conscience. He is the one who sits at the right hand of power and is worthy to rule the world with the Father. So we can be sure that Jesus’ boldest declaration of his identity, when he publicly declared that he was both Christ and God, is the very words that Jesus himself actually uttered.
Conclusion of our assessment of the Muslim response
The fact is that not only the Gospel of John, but all the Gospels teach that Jesus is God. Although there are some verses in the Gospels that might challenge the divinity of Jesus, understanding them in their context and understanding the Christian doctrine of the divinity of Jesus resolves them. Even Erman, the skeptic and favorite Muslim scholar, has now changed his mind and says: “Of course, the idea that Jesus is God is not a modern invention. As I will show in my discussion, it was the view of the early Christians immediately after Jesus’ death.” The best explanation for this immediate belief that Jesus is God, as the evidence shows, is that Jesus himself claimed to be God.


Chapter 32
Conclusion
Jesus claimed to be God.

The earliest Christian records are unanimous: Jesus is God. All four Gospels teach that Jesus is divine, and even before they were written, Christians had established the incarnation of God as the core of their faith. This was not a teaching that evolved over time, but one that existed at the beginning of the church and was rooted in Jesus’ proclamation. When we study the life of Jesus through the lens of first-century Judaism, including the Old Testament accounts of God’s meeting with man and the expectation of His return, it makes sense. The common Islamic response, that there are verses that contradict the teaching of Jesus’ divinity, usually ignores the context of those verses and at other times misunderstands the messianic mystery or the doctrine of the hypostatic union. When I studied the Gospels as a Muslim, I was shocked to discover these truths. Having always believed that the doctrine of Jesus’ divinity was invented decades, not centuries, after Jesus’ death, I realized that the Islamic explanation for Christian beliefs did not work. The early Christians, including the disciples themselves, believed that Jesus was God. How could the disciples have come to this conclusion, especially given the Jewish emphasis on monotheism and the worship of only one God? The best conclusion is that Jesus himself claimed to be God. The Gospels tell the truth. As a Muslim, my mind balked at this, but from the perspective of an objective researcher, I had to admit that this was the best explanation for the evidence. Putting together the components of the Christian case, I had little room for objection as a Muslim. The historical evidence was so inconsistent with Islamic teachings that I had no basis for standing.


Midway's summary to the second question
Evaluating Christianity and the Efforts of Islam
To consider the Christian origin

After studying the historical origins of the Christian faith, I came to this conclusion: Jesus’ death on the cross is as certain as anything historical. That he rose from the dead is by far the best explanation for the events surrounding his death. And that Jesus claimed to be God is the best explanation for the immediate declaration of Jesus’ divinity. Put all this together, the historical evidence for Christianity is very strong: Jesus claimed to be God, and he proved it by rising from the dead. The Christian case is strong. Despite my strong desire to believe in Islam, I had to admit that history favors the Christian claims and, even more reluctantly, challenges Islamic teachings. To believe the Quran, when it says that Jesus did not claim to be God, we must ignore the best explanation of early Christian beliefs. And to believe the Quran’s teachings about Jesus’ death, we must reject all historical evidence. So the record of Christian origins testifies against Islam. But the evidence is actually even more problematic for Islam than it first appears. Far more problematic is that Islamic teachings about Jesus are completely inconsistent with history.
The Absolute Incompatibility of Islam with the Identity of Jesus
For Islamic teachings to be true, it is not enough for Jesus to simply deny God. Jesus must declare that he is merely a human prophet. But the oldest records are decidedly against Islam on this point. Even a cursory glance at the Gospels shows us that Jesus sees himself as greater than a mere man. Of course, as we have seen before, Jesus sees himself as able to forgive sins, receive worship, heal people at will, demand the respect that is due God, hear and answer prayers, redeem humanity by his death, and even exist before Abraham was born. But Jesus also praised those who called him God (John 20:28), claimed to be the king of another realm (John 18:36-37), to come down from heaven (John 3:13), and to be the judge on Judgment Day (John 5:22-23). ​​Such teachings are not found only in the Gospel of John. The synoptic gospels agree that Jesus is the king of an eternal kingdom (Matthew 25:34), that he is the one who will judge humanity (Matthew 25:32), that he has the authority to save people (Luke 23:43), that he will take those he has chosen to heaven (Mark 13:27), and that his return to earth will be like a master returning to his own house (Mark 13:35). Of course, all of this is within the context of Jesus’ claim to be the heir to God’s throne of Psalm 110, seated on God’s throne, and as the divine Son of Man of Daniel 7, worshipped by all people in his eternal kingdom. These are the teachings of the Gospels, the first biographies of Jesus’ life, compiled during the lifetimes of Jesus’ disciples. There is absolutely no early Christian record of a merely human Jesus. All the evidence indicates that Jesus’ followers uniformly believed that he was divine, certainly more than a mere human. How can the Islamic model explain this? Why did Jesus’ followers preach a superhuman Jesus, and indeed God himself? Without rejecting history, there is no other explanation. Islam asks us to believe that Jesus was so incapable as a teacher and prophet that he failed to impress this simplest truth on his followers: that he was merely human. Given that the central proclamation of Islam is monotheism, this means that Jesus was a huge failure. In fact, he was worse than a complete failure, because he left his disciples with the exact opposite of monotheism. Can I really conclude that Christ was woefully inadequate? Of course not, but if we are to take the historical evidence seriously, that is what Islam wants us to believe. The record of Jesus’ identity is not only slightly inconsistent with Islamic teachings. The record of Jesus’ identity is completely incompatible with Islam. If Jesus had really taught monotheism, he would have been a completely unworthy Christian, worse than a disgraceful failure.
The absolute incompatibility of Islam with the original proclamation of Christianity
Similarly, Islam teaches that the disciples were godly men, but the entire evidence is that the early church was proclaiming the death and resurrection of Jesus—something that Islam denies. How could I explain this discrepancy as a Muslim? The only option that the historical evidence could justify was that the disciples simply got the facts wrong. But upon examination, this created a serious problem for my Islamic belief. If God saved Jesus from the cross when it appeared that Jesus was dead, as most Muslims believe, then God is responsible for the disciples’ proclamation of Jesus’ death and resurrection. Thus, God started Christianity, a false religion that has turned billions away from Islam. Worse still, Christians believe that Jesus is God because of their belief in his resurrection, yet the Quran tells us that people who believe that Jesus is God will go to hell (5:72). Can I really believe that God deceived the disciples just to save Jesus from the cross and allowed them to proclaim that Jesus was risen, thus sending billions of people to hell? Again, there is absolutely no record of any disciple preaching anything other than the death and resurrection of Jesus. Why didn’t God tell them that Jesus did not die on the cross and did not rise from the dead? God could easily have stopped them from preaching the death and resurrection of Jesus. But history is undeniable: the foundation of the disciples’ preaching was the proclamation of Jesus’ resurrection. So, if it is true that God saved Jesus from the cross, then God’s deception is responsible for the establishment of the Christian church and the billions of people who practice polytheism, an unforgivable sin. Can I really conclude that God made such a huge mistake? Of course not, but if we are to take the historical evidence seriously, that is what Islam wants us to believe. The records of the early proclamation of Christianity are not only slightly inconsistent with Islamic teachings. The records of the early proclamation of Christianity are absolutely inconsistent with Islam. If God saved Jesus from the cross and did not warn the disciples, then He is a deceitful God who is responsible for the damnation of billions. For these reasons, if we are Muslims and take the historical evidence for the origins of Christianity seriously, we must conclude that Jesus was an unworthy Christian and that God is a deceitful God.
Islam's rejection of history
Of course, Muslims do not believe this, and neither did I. I chose the only remaining option: reject all historical evidence for the origins of Christianity, no matter how much there is, how extensive it is, and how well-founded it is. The historical record is incredibly extensive, including dozens of sources from dozens of writers—Christian, Jewish, and Greco-Roman. Could I really ignore everything and turn a blind eye to all the evidence in order to maintain my Islamic beliefs? I also knew something I could no longer ignore: scholars are almost unanimous that Jesus died on the cross, the early church believed that he rose from the dead, and early Christians believed that he was superhuman and even divine. Not just Christian scholars, but even skeptical scholars—virtually all of them—were on one side of the issue, contrary to Islamic teachings. As a Muslim, I had great respect for the scholars, but I now knew that their conclusions were contrary to my faith. People who spend their lives studying these issues are against Islam. As I thought about all this, my mind kept returning to the question I forced myself to ask: "Would an objective scholar discard all evidence? Would an objective scholar come to terms with Islam on these issues?" The answer was clear: of course not. Believing in Islam about the history of Christian origins would mean rejecting all circumstantial evidence, and no objective scholar would do that.
A tentative conclusion
After spending three years researching Christianity as a Muslim, I tentatively concluded that Christians have good historical reasons for believing in their faith. It was a shift in my mind that was completely inconsistent with what I had been taught as a Muslim, but it was inevitably true. And since the evidence also challenged my Islamic beliefs, I was forced to either ignore it all (which my mind could not do), become a Christian (which I could not even imagine), or believe that, despite how strong the evidence for Christianity was, the case for Islam must be stronger. The last option was the only viable option for me, so I found myself assuming that the case for Islam must be stronger than the case for Christianity. But my friend David would not let me act on such an assumption without providing evidence. That is why I set out to research Islam: to prove that the case for Islam is stronger than the case for Christianity. My first step was to gather evidence that Muhammad was a prophet of God. After spending some time preparing, David invited me to speak at a discussion group of people from different religious backgrounds that met monthly at Mike Likona's house. It was there that I made my positive case that Muhammad was a prophet of God.











Part 9
Is Muhammad a prophet of God?










Chapter 33
Positive case
Predicted pattern

I bear witness that Muhammad is the Messenger of God.” This is the declaration of a devout Muslim, proclaimed several times a day from every minaret before the daily prayers and recited in the heart of every Muslim during prayer. This declaration, “There is no god but Allah and Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah,” is enough to bring a person to the fold of Islam. There can be no doubt that the status of the Messenger of God, his prophethood, is the central pillar of the Islamic faith. Growing up as a Muslim, Muhammad’s prophethood was a given and an integral part of our world, and sharing Islam meant convincing hearts of him. That is why when my friend Dawood asked me to share Islam with a room full of non-Muslims, I chose to present and defend the Prophet of Islam. Sitting in Mike Likona’s living room, talking to Christians, Buddhists, atheists, and mystics, I brought up the prophethood of Muhammad. I gave three reasons: Muhammad’s life and character are proof of his prophethood. That Muhammad was prophesied in the Bible. And that Muhammad had a God-given insight into science.
The life and personality of Muhammad
I began by presenting a picture of Muhammad's life that had been passed down to me through the generations, telling everyone that Muhammad had a very gentle and humble childhood. His father died before he was born, his mother died shortly after, and he spent most of his childhood as an orphan. He became a trusted and respected young merchant, and eventually married a widow fifteen years his senior instead of a young girl. Muhammad was thus a very noble young man who, even before he received his prophetic call, was uninterested in worldly attractions. It was only with reluctance that he accepted the mantle of prophethood. In the pagan environment of Mecca, Muhammad boldly proclaimed monotheism without regard for his own personal welfare. He understood the plight of widows, orphans, and the poor, and fought for their rights. Despite his peaceful message, the Meccans' hatred of the monotheism message led to persecution. Despite being protected by his uncle, Muhammad was ridiculed and threatened, even having camel entrails thrown at him while he was prostrating in prayer. His followers, who had no protectors, did worse, even martyring themselves. The persecution increased over the years, and Mecca eventually imposed a ban on Muslims, resulting in the deaths of Muhammad's uncle and wife. When a plot to assassinate Muhammad was in the offing, he fled to Medina, where he finally found enough support to defend the fledgling Muslim people. From then on, Muhammad invited the tribes of Arabia to accept Islam, and many joined the Muslims because of the beauty of the message. All this time, the Meccans kept coming to Medina to destroy the Muslims, but Allah miraculously defended them. After ten years of fighting such defensive battles, Muhammad made a treaty with the Meccans that allowed him to travel to Mecca and visit the Kaaba. Unfortunately, the Meccans broke their treaty, so Muhammad marched on Mecca with ten thousand followers. The Meccans could not withstand the might of the Muslim armies, so they surrendered. Although these were the same people who had persecuted and killed the Muslims—the same people who had caused the death of Muhammad’s beloved uncle and first wife, and the same people who had repeatedly led the Muslims into battle at the cost of so many lives—Muhammad showed them mercy. By forgiving them all, the fame of Muhammad’s message spread throughout Arabia, and by the time Muhammad died two years later, the entire Arabian Peninsula had embraced Islam. Muhammad’s character was such: in addition to being a champion for women and orphans, he was a steadfast preacher of monotheism, a great leader, and a conqueror of kindness. His life and character testify that he was the Messenger of God.
Muhammad in the Bible
A more common argument for the convincing character of Muhammad among Muslims is that the prophet was prophesied in the Bible. The Quran teaches that Muhammad was prophesied in the Torah and the Gospel: “This messenger is not a learned man, but they find [his name] written with him in the Torah and the Gospel” (7.157). For this reason, Muslims are willing to use the Bible for verses to defend Muhammad’s prophethood. There are two such passages of Scripture that we use more than any other, usually quoting from the King James Version: Deuteronomy 18:18-19 and John 16:12-14.

Deuteronomy 18
In Deuteronomy 18:18-19, God says, “I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he will tell them everything I command him. Whoever does not listen to my words that he speaks in my name, I myself will demand it of him.” In this passage, God addresses Moses and says that a prophet like Moses will come from among the Jewish brothers and will speak in the name of God. Muslims often argue that, even though Christians believe that this passage refers to Jesus, it is talking about Muhammad. Who is more like Moses: Jesus or Muhammad? Moses was born naturally, came with the law, led his people for many years, was a statesman as well as a prophet, had to lead his people out of oppression, married and had children, and finally died a natural death. None of this is true of Jesus, yet all of it is true of Muhammad. Moses is undoubtedly more like Muhammad than Jesus. Furthermore, the prophecy says that the prophet will be “from among their brothers,” that is, the Jewish brothers. The Jewish Israelites and their brothers are Ishmaelites. Therefore, the prophecy speaks of a prophet like Moses from the descendants of Ishmael. It must be Muhammad. Finally, the text says that the prophet “shall speak the words which he shall speak in my name.” will reveal. In the Quran, every Surah begins with “Bismillah.” Therefore, Muhammad spoke in the name of God more than anyone else, and every Surah of the Quran testifies to this. So I presented the common argument that through Moses in the Old Testament, God foretold the coming of Muhammad.
John 16
The Gospel of John, chapter 16, also speaks of a prophet who will come, I reasoned. It says: “I have yet many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all the truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak: and he will shew you things to come. He shall glorify me: for of that which is mine shall he take, and shew it unto you” (verses 12-14). Here Jesus speaks of a prophet, the Spirit of truth (verse 13), who will come and finish Jesus’ message. Who is this but Muhammad, the only prophet of a great religion to come after Jesus? As in the prophecy of Deuteronomy, this passage describes one who does not speak of himself, but speaks only of what he hears. The Quran is a revelation given to Muhammad and was not written by him in any way, so he only spoke what he heard, as prophecy says. Furthermore, John 16 says that the Spirit of truth will glorify Jesus. Unlike the Jews who said that Jesus was an illegitimate child, Muhammad declared that Jesus was truly born of a virgin, thereby glorifying him while others were not, fulfilling prophecy. To complete the discussion, the Greek of John 16:7 uses the word parakletos to describe this “Spirit of truth.” This word is very similar to the Greek word periklutos, which means “praised.” In Arabic, the word Muhammad means “praised.” Therefore, Jesus used the Greek word for Muhammad when he prophesied about the Spirit of truth. For all these reasons, we can be sure that through Jesus, God foretold the coming of Muhammad in the New Testament. These were just two prophecies that I selected that night from more than two dozen such prophecies that Muslims commonly argue establish the authority and prophethood of Muhammad.
Miraculous scientific knowledge
The last argument I presented to the audience was Muhammad’s amazing scientific knowledge. This argument is usually made in defense of the Quran, but I and many other Muslims made it in defense of Muhammad’s prophethood. Muhammad, while delivering the Quran and answering questions recorded in the hadiths, showed an insight into science that he could not possibly have known as a man in the seventh century. This can only mean that Allah had given Muhammad supernatural wisdom and that he was therefore a prophet of God. For example, in 23:12-14, the Quran describes the development of an embryo in stages. By describing the development of an egg from fertilization to differentiation, the Quran demonstrates a familiarity with a scientific field that was unknown in Muhammad’s day. It was not until modern medical advances that we find mankind discovering what had already been revealed in the Quran. Another common argument we used was that the Quran reveals miraculous geological facts about mountains. In 78. 6-7, the Quran describes mountains as "pegs," indicating that they have roots that extend beneath the surface of the earth. Only in modern times has science discovered the existence of such roots. Furthermore, the Quran teaches that these roots of mountains stabilize the earth, which the science of plate tectonics has only recently established. Since Muhammad was the one who received these amazing scientific teachings, he must have been a prophet of God.
Ending the positive case of Muhammad's prophethood
After presenting my argument to the discussion group for forty-five minutes, I felt confident that I had argued strongly for the prophethood of Muhammad. His life and message are intrinsic proof that he is a prophet of God. His coming was foretold by prophets before him, such as Moses and Jesus. And the advanced scientific knowledge that was revealed through him proves that he is a prophet of God. These are collectively compelling reasons to believe that Muhammad is a prophet and that Islam is the truth sent from God. But then questions arose, issues that I had not seen that challenged Muhammad’s prophethood.













Chapter 34
Answer
Don't forget the cross-references.

When I finished my talk on the historical Muhammad, the first question came from Mike. Since he had studied Islam for his debate with Shabbir Ali, he knew that there were holes in my presentation, evidence that I had not presented before concluding that Muhammad was a peaceful character. “Nabil,” he said, “there are other verses in the Quran, such as: ‘Kill the infidel wherever you find him.’ How do we know what you quoted is the most important?” Although I was very offended when people questioned Muhammad’s character, it was fair to ask. If I were to present Muhammad’s great character as evidence that he was a prophet of God, that would mean that I would have to allow for counter-evidence that might lead us to conclude that Muhammad was not a prophet of God. The same is true of the prophecies about Muhammad and Muhammad’s scientific knowledge. We need to weigh the possible counter-examples. When we consider the full body of evidence, is Muhammad's prophethood still the best outcome?
Critical consideration of the character of Muhammad
When we read about the life of Muhammad, there is no doubt that Muhammad taught many good things. This goes beyond simply declaring monotheism and submission to Allah. Muhammad taught people to feed the poor; to love others for the sake of Allah; to avoid stealing, adultery, and infanticide; to free slaves, to help the weak, and to serve those who cannot work for themselves. And much more. When considering the historical record of Muhammad’s life, one must conclude that he taught many moral and noble things. But before one can conclude that he was a prophet of God, one must consider the counter-evidence, and we will only consider the evidence that is found in the sources that most Muslims consider reliable: the Quran and the Hadith of Sahih Bukhari and Sahih Muslim. The best place to start is at the beginning. When he received his first revelation, Muhammad reacted in a very strange way: he committed suicide. “He intended to throw himself off the top of a high mountain several times, and every time he climbed a mountain peak to throw himself down,” an angel appeared to him and told him not to kill himself. Is this the behavior of a prophet? No prophet in the Old or New Testament committed suicide after seeing an angel. Muhammad’s initial encounter with a spiritual being is not at all like an encounter with an angel. According to the same hadith, this spiritual being was called a namus. Namus grabbed Muhammad and squeezed him so hard that he could not bear it. He squeezed Muhammad’s namus three times until Muhammad finally did as he was told. To the casual observer, this would seem like a violent episode, not like an encounter with an angel. Muhammad’s early ministry seems a little prophetic. When we consider whether he was a man of peace, we should note that although Muhammad’s ministry was filled with war, this in itself is not a reason to reject his divine mission. Joshua and others in the Old Testament were commanded to fight. But what is remarkable is how enthusiastically Muhammad embraced war. He said that war was literally the best thing in the world. Nothing is more rewarding for a Muslim than jihad, and it is better than praying without ceasing and fasting constantly. Muhammad taught that dying in war was so great that it was the only thing that would cause a person to leave Paradise. As for Muhammad’s treatment of his enemies, Muhammad sometimes cursed them and encouraged his subjects to compose insulting poetry. He once asked Allah to fill people’s homes with flames because Muslims were late in their daily prayers. At other times, Muhammad would send assassins to kill his enemies in their sleep and even to deceive and exploit them in order to assassinate them. He punished some of his enemies by cutting off their hands and feet, striking them in the eyes with hot irons, and licking dirt until they died. He led wars against unarmed towns. He allowed even women and children to be killed in night raids. On more than one occasion, Muhammad annihilated tribes by killing all their men and teenage boys while dividing their women and children into slaves. This is in stark contrast to the image of Muhammad, who reluctantly fought only in defensive battles. Nor does it appear that Muhammad fought only against those who attacked him. Muhammad said: “I have been commanded to fight people until they testify that there is no god but God and that Muhammad is the Messenger of God... Then they will save their lives and property from me.” Muhammad states in another hadith: “I will expel the Jews and Christians from the Arabian Peninsula and leave none but Muslims.” Based on these records, it cannot be denied that Muhammad fought against the people and wanted to expel them from Arabia based on their beliefs. They would save their lives and property from Muhammad only if they converted to Islam. How can we argue that Muhammad was so peaceful that it proved his prophetic status? In assessing Muhammad’s character, we have considered only two issues in any depth: the beginning of his ministry and his teachings on war. These alone are enough to question Muhammad’s character and prophethood, but if more is needed, skeptics usually bring up much more, such as concerns about his spiritual talent, his teachings on women, his disturbing theological teachings, his misunderstanding of Judaism and Christianity, his unfulfilled prophecies, his orders to perform pagan rituals, and his special privileges for himself. We will only briefly mention the first two. Regarding his spiritual talent and authority, apart from having contemplated suicide on several occasions, Muhammad said that he was a victim of black magic. He had delusions of doing things he had not done. He mistook demonic inspiration for divine inspiration and said that Satan had placed verses of the Quran in his heart which he then used in prayer. Regarding his assessment and treatment of women: Muhammad permitted prostitution through temporary marriage. When he was fifty-two years old, he married his nine-year-old bride, Aisha, who was still playing with dolls. Muhammad allowed his men to have sex with captive and slave women, without worrying about getting them pregnant or being sold. And Muhammad said that women would be the majority of the inhabitants of Hell because they were ungrateful to their husbands. The topics we have covered should be sufficient for our current topic. Although Muhammad may have taught many good things and at times been a kind man, given the overwhelming evidence of the opposite, we cannot conclude that his character was excellent enough to prove that he was a prophet of God.
Searching for Muhammad more accurately in the Bible
Although there are many suggested prophecies of Muhammad in the Bible, the prophecies of Deuteronomy 18 and John 16 are the ones we know to be the strongest and therefore most often predicted. However, a common problem in the way we approached them was that we tried to make the text conform to our expectations. Instead of understanding what these words meant and what they were intended to convey, we did our best to read them as prophecies about Muhammad. For example, when reading Deuteronomy 18, we never bothered to consider the Old Testament concept of a prophet, and always assumed only the Islamic concept. In the Old Testament, a prophet is anyone who prophesies because the Spirit of Yahweh rests on him. The Old Testament speaks of prophets (Judges 4:4) and entire groups of prophets at once (1 Samuel 10:5), and neither of these things fits the Muslim idea of prophecy. However, where our interpretation of the words became a real problem in Deuteronomy 18 was the way we interpreted “from among their brothers.” This phrase cannot mean from among the Ishmaelites. Whenever the Bible uses this phrase, it means “nations,” which always refers to close relatives or tribes. It never means a completely different group from a distant ancestor. You don’t need to be completely familiar with the use of this term in the Bible to conclude this, because the previous chapter defines it for us. In Deuteronomy 17:15, the Bible says, “You shall certainly set over you a king whom the LORD your God chooses. You shall set one from among your brothers as king over you; you may not set a foreigner over you, who is not one of your brothers.” So the text defines the word for us: a brother from among the Hebrews is a Hebrew. He could not be a foreigner, and the Ishmaelites were foreign. This text cannot be about Muhammad. Likewise, in John 16, we did everything we could to read Muhammad into the text, regardless of the counter-evidence that simply did not allow it. The Greek word was parakletos, not periklutos, no matter how much we wanted Jesus to use the Greek equivalent of Muhammad. And just as brothers were defined in the preceding verses of the Deuteronomy passage, parakletos was already defined in the same John passage. In 14:26, the text tells us that parakletos is the Holy Spirit. There is no room for speculation; this was a prophecy about the Holy Spirit living within Christians. It was not about the coming of any man, let alone a prophet. That is why the text says of the Spirit of truth: “He is the Spirit of truth, who gives life to the world.” He cannot receive him, because he neither sees him nor knows him; but you know him, because he dwells with you and will be in you...” (John 14:17). The disciples already knew the Spirit of truth because the Holy Spirit was with them and would soon be in them. How could this be Muhammad? Muhammad was not with them before and could not possibly have been in them. In context, we cannot conclude that the Spirit of truth is Muhammad from John 14-16. When we consider any of the so-called “Muhammad in the Bible” prophecies, it is the same. In most of them, the Bible does not predict the coming of anyone at all. In others, the entire text provides contradictory evidence that forbids us from drawing any conclusions about Muhammad. There is simply no convincing prophecy about Muhammad in the Bible.

Muhammad and science
The counter-evidence and context for the arguments that establish Muhammad’s prophethood are problematic, and so it is when we examine the argument from miraculous scientific knowledge, which Muhammad considered to be so advanced that it must have come from God. Consider, for example, Quranic embryology. Before we even look at the text of the Quran, we must consider what mankind had already discovered in order to properly frame what might be miraculous. About a thousand years before Muhammad, Aristotle published a treatise on embryology called On the Generation of Animals. This book is far more scientific and detailed than anything Muhammad suggests, as it is a complete book on the subject of embryology. In section 734a, Aristotle explicitly discusses embryonic development in stages. In section 745, he notes that the embryo is attached to the uterus by the umbilical cord. Galen, a Greek scientist who lived about five hundred years after Aristotle and five hundred years before Muhammad, also wrote a treatise on embryology, on the natural faculties. Agreeing that development occurs in stages, he says: “Now nature, in the first stage of the genesis of the animal, makes bones, cartilages, nerves, membranes, ligaments, veins, etc., and in this she uses a faculty which is generally called the terms, generative and alternative.” Both Aristotle and Galen had carefully defined terms and concepts, and they discussed in great detail the process of embryonic development. Now let us turn to the Quran, where we quote verse 23. 12-14: "And We created man from an extract of a drop of blood, then We placed him as a drop of sperm in a firm place, then We made the drop into a clot, then We shaped the clot into a lump, then We made the lump into bones, then We clothed the bones with flesh, then We brought him forth in another creation. Praise be to Allah, the Best of creators."
At the outset we must conclude that there is nothing miraculous here. It cannot be claimed that Muhammad did not know the details of embryology, when complete books were written by Aristotle a thousand years earlier and Galen five hundred years before that. Furthermore, the Quran uses weak terms and concepts that do not approach the scientific precision of Galen. Many Muslim explanations of this passage assume that "alaqah" and "madghah" have specific embryological references. And if they already believe that the Quran contains miraculous scientific knowledge, they may assume this, but they cannot assume this to prove that it does. The unrefined language makes this passage indecipherable, not miraculous. What can be gleaned from the initial phrase is the concept of development in stages, but this is certainly not miraculous, as it was known in Muhammad's time. Similarly, Aristotle had already described the attachment of an embryo to the uterus through the umbilical cord (i.e., a thing of the word). In the case of a thing of the word, women in Arabia, like women today, suffered miscarriages and saw the embryos that the Quran describes. Given the details, we can only guess what is meant by that part of the text. As far as we understand the text clearly, the only part of this Quranic verse that makes an explicit claim is that bones first grow and then are covered with flesh. Unfortunately, this is incorrect. Modern science has taught us that a single embryonic layer, the mesoderm, differentiates into bones and flesh at the same time. Therefore, the part of this passage that is clearly stated is scientifically incorrect, and the whole passage is much less than texts written a thousand years ago. It is simply not a miraculous passage. Much could be said about the seemingly miraculous insight into mountains, that they stabilize the earth and have roots, but it will be useful to simply point out the patterns. Here too, the scientific claim is false. Mountains do not provide stability in the earth’s crust. Instead, they are the result of tectonic instability. While the claim that mountains have roots beneath the earth’s surface is true in a sense, the Quran is certainly not the first book to make this claim. We see this claim at least three times in the Bible: Job 28:9, Psalm 18:7, and Jonah 2:6. As a Muslim, I believed that there were dozens of examples of miraculous scientific knowledge in the Quran, but when I examined them closely, I realized that each one was subject to at least one of three criticisms: First, the verses were made to state things they did not claim (such as the “Muhammad” prophecies in the Bible). Second, the science was actually known before Muhammad's time (such as embryonic development in stages). Or third, the science was incorrect (such as bone development before muscle). There are many examples of the third criticism that really nail the coffin of this argument. These incorrect statements are found in both the Quran and the hadith. For example, in the area of embryology alone, the Quran is incorrect about spermatogenesis, claiming that semen is produced between a man's spine and his ribs (86. 7). In the hadith we find a case that is very telling: A man asked Muhammad to prove his prophethood by answering questions correctly. One of the questions was why a child might resemble its father more than its mother, or vice versa. Muhammad replied that Gabriel had informed him of the answer to his question: the first parent to ejaculate during intercourse determined the child's appearance. It goes without saying that this is scientifically incorrect, since genetics determine the child's appearance. We shouldn’t blame a man in the seventh century for being unfamiliar with Mendelian genetics, but in this case, Muhammad was actually trying to prove with his scientific insight that he was a prophet of God, and he was very wrong. That bitter fact alone was enough to give me pause as a Muslim. There were many other times when Muhammad was wrong about his science, and examples of this can be found in the Quran as well as the Hadith. For example, apart from what we have already seen, the Quran says that the sun sets in a pool of muddy water in the west (18.86), and it assumes that the stars are meteors (67.5). In the Hadith apart from what we have already seen, Muhammad teaches that flies have diseases on one wing and antidotes on the other, that cumin cures all diseases, and that camel urine cures stomachaches. These are just a few examples of Muhammad’s many scientific inaccuracies.
Ending the response to the case of Muhammad's prophethood
It is worth noting that we have not attempted to refute Muhammad’s prophethood. We have considered the arguments used to prove Muhammad’s prophethood and have concluded that they are quite problematic. Although I and other Muslims have often argued that Muhammad should be followed because of his excellent character, I have not been able to prove that argument in the face of counter-evidence. Although Muhammad provided abundant moral teachings and at times displayed a kind and peaceful personality, there are many other accounts of Muhammad’s brutality and joy in war, his spiritual deficiencies, and his disturbing treatment of women, among other concerns. Also, there are no prophecies about Muhammad in the Bible. Reading the full text of the proposed passages and carefully considering their wording shows that none of these passages are prophetic. Likewise, there is no miraculous scientific knowledge in either the Quran or the Hadith. On the contrary, the historical and textual context shows each instance to be incomplete. Furthermore, many examples of flawed science can be found in the texts of the Quran and Hadith, which prevents us from considering the text miraculous.




Chapter 35
Response evaluation
Hadith vs. History

The three reasons that Muslims usually give for accepting Muhammad as a prophet—his character, the prophecies of the Bible, and his miraculous scientific insights—are all very problematic. Consequently, we have no reason to believe that Muhammad was sent by God. The argument is incredibly simple. By simply stating the reasons for Muhammad’s prophethood and examining them closely, we have done something that most Muslims never do. In general, most Muslims inherit a complete picture of Muhammad from their parents and teachers as children and then assume that the stories they have always heard are true. This was the case with me, and since I had never really considered the arguments rational, I did not respond rationally to the counterarguments. Although I had invited my friend David to study the subject with me, we often argued bitterly about Muhammad. I remember accusing him more than once of “dragging our prophet through the mud,” when in fact, in my heart I knew that I didn’t know how to deal with what I was learning about Muhammad. The reality is that most Muslims simply haven’t read the primary sources of Muhammad’s life, but instead have only heard a review that has filtered out the problematic narratives. When they hear these stories for the first time, they don’t know how to react. When I began reading these narratives with my own eyes, I tried to sort through each one individually, looking for explanations and ways to explain or refute any accounts that challenged my image of the peaceful and noble Muhammad. The individual problematic narratives quickly grew into dozens of such stories, and within a few months I was trying to explain away over a hundred accounts of Muhammad’s life that I simply couldn’t believe were true. This is when I began to take a more systematic approach to the life of Muhammad. How could I know which accounts of Muhammad's life were reliable and which were not?
Hadith sciences and our historical method
As Muslims, we knew that it would be a long time after Muhammad’s death before anything significant was written about his life, but people did not stop talking about him. For more than two hundred years, stories about the Prophet Muhammad were passed down orally from person to person, and among the authentic accounts, many forgeries abounded. By the time a systematic attempt was made to classify them, more than five hundred thousand accounts of Muhammad’s life were in circulation, and it is generally estimated that the vast majority of them were false. How can we tell which accounts of Muhammad’s life are reliable? I first considered the classical Islamic method of assessing the authenticity of hadith. In the field of hadith, which is translated as “the science of Muhammad’s sayings,” Muslim scholars rank individual accounts of Muhammad’s life based on criteria such as the degree of fame of a story and the people who narrated it. The most authentic hadith is ultimately graded as sahih, meaning “authentic” or “trustworthy,” while the weakest hadith are considered da’eef (“weak”) or even mudu (“fabricated”). Imam Bukhari and his disciple Imam Muslim were two of the most respected scholars in the third century after Muhammad, and they collected only the hadith they considered authentic and indisputable. Most Muslims consider their collections to be above reproach. Using only the hadith they confirmed, I hoped to see Muhammad as the noble and peaceful man I had always been taught, with no problematic narrations about his life. But that was not to be. Even among the authentic collections, there were problematic narrations. In fact, every single narration in the previous surah was either from the Quran or from the authentic collections of Imam Bukhari and Imam Muslim. I began asking the imams to resolve these problematic reports in the sahih, and I also searched the Internet to see how other Muslims responded to the criticisms. What I learned was that many were willing to accuse even the authentic collections of narrations of fabrication, and to find ways to refute those narrations that they considered authentic by the great scholars of ancient Islam. That’s when I realized they were playing a dangerous game. They were essentially finding ways to select from the ancient record which narrations were reliable and which were not, and create a Muhammad that they felt comfortable with. I didn’t want to do that. I wanted to know who Muhammad really was and whether I should follow him as my prophet, not create a Muhammad in my mind that was worth following. I decided to rethink my approach and study Muhammad historically, rather than through the science of hadith. What were the first narrations written about Muhammad, and how early were they written? It was then that I realized some shocking facts about early Islam. First, in Muhammad’s time, people didn’t write books in Arabic. The first Arabic book to be composed was the Quran, and it became a written book even after Muhammad’s death. There was no such thing as written Arabic literature, it was only oral. This is because, secondly, people were still figuring out how to write Arabic. Arabic script was far from standardized and had only been invented a century or two before Muhammad’s time. For these and other reasons, thirdly, no one wrote a biography of Muhammad’s life until about 140 years after Muhammad’s death. At that time, there were certainly no eyewitnesses to Muhammad’s life, and people were generations removed from the events being discussed. Can we trust such a narrative to be an unfiltered and accurate portrayal of Muhammad? The first biography, Sirat Rasoolullah, was written by someone named Ibn Ishaq, but the book itself is actually lost. Ibn Ishaq taught a man named Al-Baqa’i, who published Ibn Ishaq’s book himself, and Al-Baqa’i taught a man named Ibn Hisham, who revised Al-Baqa’i’s edition, and this is the version we have today. Why did these men each make their own versions? Ibn Hisham tells us in his introductory remarks: “Subjects that are embarrassing to discuss, matters that would upset some, and such narrations as Al-Baqa’i told me I could not accept as reliable, I have omitted all of these.” In other words, the first biography of Muhammad was notorious for its forgeries, embarrassing material, and uncomfortable facts. What we have today has been filtered many times, both for forgeries and for difficult facts. It is because of such deliberate editing that historians do not consider later accounts to be as reliable as earlier accounts, all other things being equal. Earlier accounts have not been filtered as much, and are therefore more likely to be true. Also, people are more prone to forgetting information over time, especially information that doesn’t fit the narrative as a whole. When it comes to the record of Muhammad’s life, we simply don’t have such raw or unfiltered data. Everything has been filtered through generations. Even though the first biography has passed through layers of filtering, it still contains shocking material. Muhammad personally oversaw the beheading of nine hundred men in one day, digging trenches in the markets so that their bodies could be thrown into mass graves after being beheaded. He ordered the murder of an old man who had written a poem complaining about Muhammad. A woman lamented the old man’s death in the poem, so Muhammad ordered her killed, and her blood was spilled on her children while she was breastfeeding. Muhammad ordered a city treasurer to be tortured to extract the location of the money, so his men lit a fire with flint and steel on the treasurer’s chest until he was nearly dead, and finally beheaded him. When Muhammad was about to execute a man, the man pleaded, “Who will take care of my children?” to which Muhammad replied, “Hell!” Just a cursory glance at the earliest biographies reveals many disturbing accounts of Muhammad. By the time the hadiths were written down under the supervision of men like Imam Bukhari and Imam Muslim, many of these accounts had been removed from Muhammad’s biographies, just as Ibn Hisham and al-Baqarah had filtered the accounts they had received. Because of this selective filtering, the entire hadith collection is inherently incomplete: they contain only those accounts that several generations of early Muslims, each one choosing to save. As we have seen, even those that were preserved were often considered incomplete and fabricated.
What can we really know about Muhammad?
For this reason, non-Muslim scholars of early Islam are very hesitant to trust information about Muhammad’s life. Almost none accept the science of hadith criticism as it is, most of them only hope to extract historical kernels of truth from the hadith. Some scholars have even given up hope of such success, saying that almost nothing can be known about Muhammad. These scholars come from a variety of religious and non-religious backgrounds. One Muslim scholar concluded that, given the nature of the evidence, Muhammad son Kalisch may not have existed at all. Muhammad son Kalisch completed his doctorate in Islamic jurisprudence in 1997 and became the first German professor to hold a chair in Islamic theology. When he arrived at the University of Münster in 2004, he was criticized by some for his zeal for Sharia. But then, according to the Wall Street Journal, Kalisch “wanted to examine Islam as much as Christianity and Judaism.” At first he defended Muhammad in print, but the more he studied, the more he realized that there were significant problems with the account. The word Muhammad occurs only four times in the Quran, and it is not clear whether it is a noun or a title. The Quran 61. 6 seems to say that the name of the prophet was Ahmad, not Muhammad. There is no further evidence of Muhammad’s existence until the early eighth century, when coins bearing his name were struck. “The more I studied, the more unlikely it became that the historical figure was the root of everything,” says Muhammad Kalish. Other scholars have come to similar conclusions because of the gaps in the historical record. Their concerns are more than just an argument from silence. If the traditional understanding of Islam is correct, it is indeed very problematic that we do not find more information about Muhammad in the earliest historical records. If Muhammad was the prophet of the Arabs, and if they were energized and motivated by his teachings, why do the Arab conquests of the Middle East, North Africa, and Iran never mention him by name? These conquests occurred in the mid-seventh century, immediately after Muhammad’s death, yet no contemporary record mentions Muhammad. In fact, none of them mentions the Bible or even the word Muslim. It is not that there is no record. There is abundant record, based on the correspondence and writings of the conquerors, but Muhammad is never mentioned, no Bible is mentioned, and the conquerors are never called Muslims. Other evidence also makes historians scratch their heads: Although Mecca is known as a trading center, it never appeared on any trade route until the end of the eighth century. None of the early mosques faced Mecca (until about the end of the eighth century, they all faced Jerusalem or Petra). Mecca is mentioned only once in the Quran. The description of the land in the Quran is very similar to Mecca, much more like northern Arabia. And the list goes on. For these reasons, not only one Muslim scholar, but many scholars are skeptical of the traditional origins of Islam and even the existence of Muhammad, at least as the early Islamic documents describe him. The truth about the origins of Islam, they say, is sadly obscure. There is almost nothing we can know with certainty about the historical Muhammad.










Chapter 36
Conclusion
The crossroads of historical Muhammad

Both as a Muslim and now, ten years later, I have not concluded that Muhammad did not exist. Given the sheer volume of stories and accounts, as well as their relative coherence, it seems to me more likely than that Muhammad did. But I must agree with the basic consensus of non-Muslim scholarship: we cannot know much about Muhammad with certainty. The obvious alternative is to trust the Islamic accounts of Muhammad’s life, the hadith, and the seerah. But if we judge their authenticity by the standards of the hadith sciences, we still find a Muhammad who is not convincing as a prophet of God. He may have been a great seventh-century general who adhered to the cultural standards of his time, but he was certainly not the greatest moral model of all time, nor someone to whom I would declare my allegiance. If we abandon the hadith sciences and adopt the historical method of assessing the earliest biographies and accounts of Muhammad’s life, we find a more brutal and problematic picture of Muhammad. This is the dilemma I had as a Muslim: either I could trust the historical sources of Muhammad's life and find a man I would never want to follow as a prophet, or I could question the sources and find a reason for the prophet. In either case, I could not conclude from the evidence that Muhammad was a prophet of God.
Riots in Ashgabat
Just like Professor Muhammad Son Kalisch, I was confident in Islam and in following Muhammad until I applied the same critical criteria to his life that I did to the life of Jesus. While critically studying Jesus’ claim to divinity, I was willing to set aside the Gospel of John because it was written fifty-five or sixty years after Jesus’ death, even if eyewitnesses to Jesus’ life were still alive at the time. If I had treated the accounts of Muhammad’s life in this way, I would have had to set aside absolutely everything and would have no reason to consider him a prophet. But his record presented me with a dilemma: if I believed in the authenticity of the records, then there was no way I could follow Muhammad as a prophet. His character was certainly not so great as to compel us to accept him as a prophet. He had many spiritual shortcomings and was very violent throughout his ministry, among other concerns. The record also did not show that God had approved of his ministry: he was not prophesied in the Bible, and he had no significant scientific insight. Disappointed, I concluded that I simply could not declare Muhammad a prophet of God based on the historical record. I could no longer recite the Testimony without a doubt, and this troubled me. The only way I could continue to follow Muhammad was through the Quran. If the Quran could be shown to be the word of God, then the one delivering it must have been a messenger of God. I clung to the hope that my research into the Quran would not only confirm Muhammad but also completely surpass the evidence for Christianity.















Part 10
Is the Quran the word of God?










Chapter 37
Positive case
There is no other book like it.

The Quran is the jewel of Islam. It is the “proof” of Muslim belief and the foundation of faith. Its place in Islamic theology is what Jesus is in Christian theology, and as a Muslim, my trust in nothing less than the text and its transcendence is built on. We have inherited our high regard for the Quran from the Muslims around us and from the world of our tradition. I grew up hearing portions recited aloud in daily prayers and asking my mother about them every day, and I memorized its chapters. Thus, I memorized the last seven surahs of the Quran by the age of five, and the last fifteen by the age of fifteen. While I was more familiar with the Quran than most Muslims I knew, I was certainly not unusual. Some in our Muslim community memorized the entire Quran by their teenage years. We look to the Quran more than any other physical object in the world. After all, we believed it to be the word of God. When I lost my historical confidence in Muhammad's prophethood, I placed all my hope on the pillar of the Quran, believing it to be strong enough to confirm Muhammad's prophethood. To be honest, I was really convinced that it would hold up because I had heard so many arguments for its inspiration.
The Literary Excellence of the Quran
It is the deep conviction of believing Muslims that the excellence of the Quran is unparalleled and its literary quality is unparalleled. This is not only because it is a statement of Allah, the Word of God on earth, which is inherently true, but also because the Quran says so. When people asked Muhammad to prove that the Quran was inspired by God, the answer came: “None but Allah can produce this Quran... or they say, ‘He has forged it.’ Say, ‘Then produce a chapter like it, if you are truthful.’” (10:37-38). The Quran therefore challenges skeptics to strive to produce something equal or better, and makes it clear that no one but Allah can produce a recitation as sublime as this. They will never be able to do so, even if they enlist the help of every human being and every devil: “Say, ‘If all mankind and jinn were to gather together to produce the like of this Quran, they could not produce the like of it’” (17:88). The fundamental challenge is repeated many times in the Quran. Muslims believe that this challenge was posed to the cynical Arabs who specialized in poetry. They were never able to produce anything as sublime and compelling as the Quran, and so the challenge remains to this day.
Fulfilled prophecies of the Quran
If the Quran can be shown to contain fulfilled prophecies, then we have good reason to believe that it is from God. One of the clearest prophecies is found in Surah 30, Ar-Rum. In it, the Quran mentions the recent loss of the Roman Empire and predicts that the Romans will eventually regroup and defeat their enemies within a few years (30.2-4). This is exactly what happened. The Persians defeated the Romans in 614, but Emperor Heraclius finally defeated the Persians in 622.
Other prophecies, which are more far-reaching in their predictions, have also come true. For example, the Quran says: “Their hearing and their sight and their skins will bear witness against them as to what they used to do” (41:20). Reading the verse, one wonders how skin can bear witness against a man. Muhammad could never have known about fingerprint analysis, that people’s skins can bear witness against them. So this verse is a prophecy that has come true in modern times. Many other prophecies like these two, foretelling events in ancient and modern times, confirm that the Quran is the word of God.
Miraculous scientific knowledge in the Quran
Muslims often argue that there is amazing scientific knowledge in the Quran. In addition to the examples in chapter 33, Muslims often argue that the Quran speaks of the Big Bang in 21:30, which says: “Do not those who disbelieve know that the heavens and the earth were joined together, then We separated them?” In addition to the miraculous astronomical insight, the verse goes on to provide a miraculous biological insight: “And We created from water every living thing.” Muhammad could not have known about the Big Bang or the fact that water is essential to all forms of life. The best explanation for this amazing scientific knowledge is that the Quran must have come from Allah.
The mathematical wonders of the Quran
Although this was not an argument I ever used, many Muslims argue that the Quran displays mathematical wonders that can only be the result of Allah’s authorship. One type of mathematical wonder is numerical parallelism: the word “month” appears twelve times in the Quran, the word “day” 365 times, the words “man” and “woman” appear an equal number of times, the words “angels” and “devils” appear an equal number of times. And the words “this world” and “the hereafter” appear an equal number of times. Such numerical parallels can only be the result of a divine mind behind the text. In addition to these patterns, there is a code hidden in the Quran. The Quran says in 74.30: “[And] over it [Hell] are nineteen [guardians].” When we analyze the Quranic text for patterns, we start to find the number nineteen everywhere. To give just a few examples, the total number of surahs in the Quran is divided into nineteen parts. The first revelation of the Quran had nineteen words. And the first chapter, which was revealed in chronological order, has nineteen verses and a total number of words divisible by nineteen. Dozens of such examples can be found, and the number nineteen is not a small prime number, making it very difficult to show it as a common pattern for a text. Given the Quranic verse on the number nineteen, the strangeness of the number, and the prevalence of the pattern, one can be confident that Allah is the author of this text.
Complete memorization of the Quran
One of the most essential reasons for the Muslim faith is the complete preservation of the Quran. Every word, every letter, every line of the Quran has remained exactly as it was revealed, from Allah to Muhammad to this day. This is a fundamental belief because of the view of the Quran in Islam: it is the eternal expression of Allah, so it never changes. Its immutability is also essential because it is the basis of the Sharia, the law for all time. This is the miraculous proof of the Quran’s inspiration, for it is predicted in the Quran: “Indeed, We have revealed this Quran gradually, and We will certainly be its guardian” (9.15). And since we believed that every other holy book had been corrupted by its followers, this miracle is all the more powerful.

Positive case conclusion
In our circles the Quran was truly above discussion. For numerous reasons, the Muslim community is convinced beyond any doubt that it is the word of God: its text is incomparably superior, it predicts prophecies that have been fulfilled, it holds hidden scientific truths waiting to be discovered, its amazingly calculated text can only be the product of a divine mind, and the text is perfectly preserved. Such were the arguments we had always believed in, and I had been convinced of their power all my life. However, when it became the only remaining pillar of my faith, I had to examine these arguments much more carefully than before. They were now the sole foundation of my faith, and I had to make sure that they could bear the weight of my entire Islamic worldview.












Chapter 38
Answer
In what way is this a miracle?

When I began my research on the Quran, I became increasingly convinced that it was the word of God, but I had to be able to show that an objective researcher would also find the case convincing. That's where the case began to fall apart.
The Literary Excellence of the Quran: An Incomplete Test
One of the first things that became apparent was that the Quran’s own defense of its own inspiration—the challenge of writing a revelation like that—is virtually impossible. I remember well Mike Licona’s response when I told him the challenge of the Quran. He replied bluntly, “I’ve never seen anything better written than the Quran.” “Have you ever read Psalm 23?” Shocked by his outrageous statement, I replied that Psalm 23 was not on the level of the Quran, but he simply contradicted me, saying that it was one of the most powerful verses ever written, and more moving than anything he had read in the Quran. It was then that I took a step back and reevaluated the test. What was it really asking? I began to think that it must be the inimitable Arabic of the Quran, not the English translation or commentary. But did that mean that the test was limited to Arab speakers? That couldn’t be the case either. The people who had specifically set out to answer the challenge of the Quran had previously written a book of Christian teachings in Arabic called Furqan al-Haqq, “The True Discernment.” They had incorporated many of the teachings of the Psalms into this Arabic book and written them in the style of the Quran. Their results were so convincing that they read the text aloud, reciting it in the style of the Quran in the middle of Arab Muslim cities. Many passersby would hear the recitation and, mistaking it for the Quran, would thank the reciters for reciting it. So it is clear that this test did not work for Arab speakers, and even for Arab Muslims. Researching the subject online, I found Muslim apologists who argued that the Arabs who misunderstood Furqan al-Haqq were probably uneducated and therefore did not appreciate the sublime beauty of the Quran. An expert in Arabic would find the text of the Quran inimitable. It was then that I found an assessment by a scholar named Gerd Poin, who specializes in the Arabic spelling of the Quran. Poin argued that “every fifth sentence simply doesn’t make sense.” Poin added, preemptively defending his claim: “Of course, many Muslims—and Orientalists—will tell you otherwise, but the fact is that one-fifth of the Quran is incomprehensible.” To this, Muslim apologists responded that Gerd Poin was not a native Arabic speaker. The Quran should have been assessed by an Arabic expert who was himself an Arab and spoke Arabic. With each step, it seemed that the test was being redefined to somehow protect it from scrutiny, but this begs the question: In what sense is this challenge relevant to us? If it is only for Arab speakers, it makes no sense to the vast majority of people in the world today. If people have to be experts in classical Arabic, then it would only apply to a very small number of people in human history. Of course, all of this is apart from the subjective nature of the test and its non-sequential nature: who can say whether one composition is superior to another? By what standard? The Quran certainly does not set the parameters that its defenders do. And even if it turns out that the Quran is the best writing humanity has ever seen, that does not mean it was inspired. Stradivarius, a man who lived from the mid-1600s to the 1700s, is famous for making the finest violins ever heard, acoustically. Even with our modern technology, we have not been able to reproduce their perfection. If he had said that his violins were made by God and offered their unparalleled quality as proof, we would have called him crazy or a liar. How does a superior product prove divine origin? For these reasons, the literary superiority of the Quran is an imperfect test, and as I found with Mike, it is not convincing to non-Muslims—the very people for whom it is intended. An objective scholar will not be convinced.
Quranic Prophecies: Not Really Prophecy
When we examine the prophecies of the Quran carefully, we find that there is virtually no case to test. For example, let us consider the claim that 41.20 is a prophecy about fingerprints. The full context of the verse is: “And [remember] the Day when the enemies of Allah will be gathered to the Fire and will be confined [and divided into groups] until, when they reach it, their hearing and their sight and their skins will testify against them as to what they used to do. And they will say to their skins, ‘Why did you testify against us?’ They will say, ‘He who gives speech to all things has made us speak, and He created you the first time, and to Him you will be returned.’” (41:19-21). Reading the text, we find that the Quran is actually talking about the Day of Judgment, that skin will speak with its voice, its eyes, and its ears. This prophecy is not about something happening on earth, but rather an apocalyptic description of judgment. Only by taking this verse out of context and imposing a fabricated meaning on it can this verse be interpreted for our time.
Of course, if we try hard enough, we can do this with almost any text, and it's easier with apocalyptic texts like this. For example, I just opened the Bible to a random section of the book of Revelation, and my finger landed on 11:8, which says, "And their dead bodies will lie on the ground in the street of that great city, which is figuratively called Sodom and Egypt, where also their Lord was crucified." I could argue that this was a miraculous prophecy of the Arab Spring, describing the aftermath of the Tahrir Square protests that occurred in January 2011 and resulted in the deaths of over eight hundred people. Furthermore, the city of Cairo, where Tahrir Square is located, is often figuratively called Egypt in Arabic. Thus, eight hundred bodies were laid out in Tahrir Square, the public square in the great city that is figuratively called Egypt. Revelation 11:8 predicts this event with great accuracy almost two thousand years in advance. Of course, this is not what the text predicts, and I am just making this all up, but if I really wanted to, I could make the case sound convincing, especially if I took the verse out of context. This is exactly what we see in the vast majority of so-called prophecies in the Quran. There is no reason to think that the Quran is any of these so-called prophecies. It expresses prophecies. This is not to say that there may not be hidden prophetic meaning in the text of the Quran, but for it to be a prophecy that will convince the objective scholar, it must meet the minimum criterion of being clearly a prophecy, not a text that can be transformed into one. For example, the passage about the Roman victory in 30.2-4 does indeed seem to be a prophecy, the clearest example of a prophecy in the Quran, so it is worth considering more carefully. There are two minor problems with considering this fulfilled prophecy and two major problems. In short, the first minor problem is the nature of the prophecy; it is not so much a prediction. Given the ongoing nature of the conflicts between Byzantium and Persia at the time, it is certain that a Byzantine victory will occur at some point. It is almost like saying: "The Chicago Bulls just lost to the Los Angeles Lakers, but the Bulls will eventually win." The second minor problem is the number of years that the Byzantines They were victorious. The Quranic verse uses a word that implies ten years or less, but it took the Romans seventeen years to finally defeat the Byzantines. There are two much more significant problems with using this as a prophetic fulfillment. First, Quranic verses were regularly abrogated, and the Byzantine victory occurred during Muhammad’s lifetime. If it seemed that this was not going to happen, the text could easily have been abrogated. Second, and relatedly, the Quran was not collected into one book, even later. If this prophecy had failed, it could have been left out of the final collection of the text, like other verses. So this example of a Quranic prophecy, the best the text offers, is not convincing. It is essentially a 50/50 prediction that could easily have been retracted, and if we take the text literally, it seems that it did not come true anyway, because the Byzantines did not defeat the Persians until The estimated time has passed.
Miraculous scientific knowledge: considering context and context
With regard to the prophethood of Muhammad, we have already seen that the Quran contains scientific inaccuracies – such as the setting of the sun in water and the production of sperm between the spine and ribs – which are enough to cast serious doubt on the scientificity of the Quran. As before, simply examining the context and context of such supposed miraculous knowledge is usually enough to conclude that the argument is not convincing. This rule of thumb holds true here as well. Looking again at 21:30 of the Quran, it actually says: “Did the disbelievers not know that the heavens and the earth were of one piece, then We separated them.” It does not say that the universe was one, but rather that the heavens and the earth were joined together and God separated them. This is really just an approximation of what God was doing in Genesis 1:6 – nothing new or unique to the Quran. Similarly, it is not difficult to imagine that all living things are made of water, since humans and animals all drink water and survive very little in a desert where there is not much water. Finally, it is perhaps worth noting that the Quran repeatedly states that the jinn are made of fire, not water, and some consider this to be a contradiction in the Quran. Thus, these examples, as before, are shown to be far from convincing given the actual text of the verse, the historical context of the claim of science, and the accuracy of what the Quran states. There is no miraculous scientific knowledge in the Quran.

Mathematical Wonders:
What makes them special?
Although many Muslims find reasoning from mathematical patterns compelling, to be honest, I never have. All sorts of amazing patterns can be found in the world around us if we simply look for them. This is true of the natural world, as anyone who has considered the golden ratio will attest, and it is true of man-made products as well. For example, by looking for patterns in Moby Dick or The Whale, one can find predictions of the future, including the assassinations of Leon Trotsky, Martin Luther King Jr., John F. Kennedy, Abraham Lincoln, and Princess Diana. If you look hard enough, and if you can change the parameters, you will find patterns. And we know that the person who “discovered” the pattern of the number nineteen in the Quran did exactly that. Rashad Khalifa, the first to publish the pattern of the number nineteen, spent some 250 pages defending the fifty-two different ways in which the number nineteen was found in the text of the Quran. According to a popular Muslim scholar, Bilal Phillips, “Most Muslims readily and unquestioningly accepted Khalifa’s claims because they had an aura of ‘scientific fact’ about them.” But some Muslims vehemently criticized the argument for the number nineteen, pointing out major flaws in Khalifa’s argument. Phillips himself wrote an entire treatise against it, entitled “The Numerical Miracle of the Quran.” In it, Phillips says, “The theory of nineteen is a fabricated hoax that cannot withstand serious scientific scrutiny.” Part of Phillips’ response to Khalifa concerns the Quranic verse quoted by Khalifa, 74. 30-31. Reading the full text in this case makes it clear that the number nineteen refers to the number of angels who guard the fire of hell, not to the patterns of miracles in the Quranic text. As we have seen others do with Quranic “prophecies,” the Caliph simply took words out of their context and tried to fit them into his own theory. Another part of Phillips’s response concerns the inconsistent method and arbitrary choices required to argue for the number nineteen. “Using Dr. Caliph’s inconsistent method of constructing multiples, 8 can be established as the axis of the numerical code of the miracle of the Quran,” says Phillips, and he goes on to give eight reasons for this. However, the bulk of Phillips’ response to the Caliph’s argument is a systematic analysis of Caliph’s publications and calculations, concluding that the Caliph had “fabricated data to artificially create the sum of letters that are multiples of nineteen.” Not only does the Caliph count letters and verses inconsistently, using “an incomprehensible system of word recognition that is completely at odds with the rules of classical and modern Arabic grammar,” but he also wants to leave out two verses from the Quran to make his calculations work. Phillips’ arguments against the “miraculous model” are compelling, as is his conclusion that the Caliph was willing to manipulate the Quranic text simply to fit the data. In a similar way, arguments for miraculous numerical parallels seem to contradict the text and manipulate the phrase. For example, the Quran does not use the word day 365 times. It does 360 times, and for the other five to work, proponents of the argument would have to distort the data and allow words to be counted that are not exactly the word of the day. The same is true of the number of times the moon is used and the supposed parallel occurrences of man and woman and the world and the hereafter. Since Arabic is a Semitic language and uses a three-letter root system for its words, different words are very similar in spelling, and this often works to the advantage of those who are willing to "twist the data" to make their own arguments. To summarize my response to the argument about amazing mathematical patterns, I will quote Phillips's closing statement: "It can be concluded that the theory of nineteen as a numerical code is a miracle of the Quran in the Quran itself and that the few instances where nineteen and its multiples occur are simply coincidences taken out of proportion." The same can be said of all the mathematical wonders found in the Quran.
Complete memorization of the Quranic text:
In what way is it perfectly preserved?
Finally, while we firmly believe in the complete memorization of the Quran, the reality is that it is impossible to prove it. When Uthman produced an official, edited version of the Quran and destroyed all other copies, he left no means for future historians to determine whether the Quran we know today actually dates back to Muhammad. Uthman destroyed all evidence, and it seems that he did so precisely because there were so many different versions. Despite the fact that complete memorization cannot be proven, it can be refuted to a considerable extent. In the first place, the text of the Quran was not always written down, but sometimes only known by memory. This was why Umar persuaded Abu Bakr to compile a copy of the Quran in the first place. Many Qurans were dying on the battlefields, and Umar said, “I fear that there will be a greater loss of life among the Qurans on the battlefields than a large part of the Quran will be lost.” If the Quran had been written, why was it feared that it would be lost when its reciters died? The fact is that parts of the Quran were not written and had to be collected from people's memories. Sahih al-Bukhari explicitly states that the Quran was collected from "palm branches, thin white stones, and from men who knew it by heart." The same hadith tells us that at least two verses were known only to one person: "I searched the Quran until I found the last two verses of Surah At-Tawbah with Abu Khuzaymah al-Ansari, and I could not find them with anyone other than him. In other words, two verses of the Quran were recorded on the testimony of one person. If he had not memorized them, they would have been lost and we would not have been any the wiser. Sahih al-Bukhari says that when the Quran was first written down, a verse was missed and had to be found later: “When we abrogated the Quran, a verse from Surah al-Ahzab was lost to me, and I used to hear the Messenger of God reciting it. So we searched for it and found it with Khuza’mah ibn Thabit al-Ansari.” It seems that verses were constantly being forgotten, lost, and difficult to retrieve. Muhammad himself said that Muslims easily forget verses of the Quran. “Continue reciting the Quran, for it leaves the hearts of people faster than a camel.” He was not exaggerating, for he even forgot verses of the Quran. When he heard a man reciting the Quran at night, he said, “May God have mercy on him, for he has reminded me of verses that I have forgotten.” If, according to the most reliable narrations, only one person knew parts of the Quran and ignored others, and Muslims forgot verses, wouldn’t it be possible that some of the Quran had been completely discarded? Can we really say that such a shaky text has been completely preserved? Unfortunately, we cannot. Sahih Bukhari puts the nail in the coffin by recording this hadith: “Umar said: Ubayy was the best of us in reciting the Quran, but we forget some of what he recited.” Ubayy said: I took it from the mouth of the Messenger of Allah and I never forget it.
So the best reciter of the Quran was of the opinion that verses of the Quran had been omitted.” Muhammad himself chose Ubayy as one of the best teachers of the Quran, but he disagreed with the Quran of today. In short, not only is there no way to prove the complete memorization of the Quran, but it seems to have been refuted: parts are missing, and one of the greatest teachers of the Quran, chosen by Muhammad, was opposed to the modern edition. Much more could be said against the argument for complete memorization, but we have only been content with the evidence in Sahih Bukhari, and not even all of it. Finally, as we saw in Surah 14, the text of the Quran was being abrogated. Muhammad abrogated some of the older verses and replaced them with newer ones. The Quran itself testifies to this in 2. 106 and 16.101. Muslims may be able to accept this phenomenon as a divine command, and they are well within their rights to do so, but to an objective scholar, it strongly challenges the claim of perfect preservation. Rather, the phenomenon of abrogation makes the text of the Quran appear highly artificial and man-made. Of course, even if the Quran were preserved in its entirety, this would not necessarily be a miracle. Many texts have remained unchanged throughout the ages. But given its abrogation of text, missing sections, forgotten sections, and the controlled destruction of all kinds, an objective scholar is forced to ask: “In what way is the preservation of the Quran miraculous?”
Ending the answer to the positive case
When we begin to dig beneath the surface, the arguments for the divine inspiration of the Quran are not all that convincing. The literary superiority of the Quran is untestable, subjective, and unprovable. The prophecies of the Quran are not convincing. The science of the Quran is truly problematic. The numerical patterns are often distorted data with exaggerated interpretations. And the Quran is not preserved in any miraculous sense. Since there is no convincing reason, there is no reason to accept the Quran as the word of God.











Chapter 39
Response evaluation
What kind of book is the Quran?

When evaluating these counterarguments as a Muslim, my immediate response was to bring more evidence to the table, to provide more examples of fulfilled prophecies and more examples of miraculous scientific knowledge. We had heard dozens of such examples in our lives in the mosques. Surely, if the first few examples were not convincing, one of many others would have to. It took me months of citing example after example until I finally realized that, in fact, they all succumbed to the same basic criticisms. When I became familiar with the history of the Quranic text, the process was quite different. Then, it was not a series of examples that were called into question, but the fundamental narrative of my Muslim faith. We had learned from everyone, not just the imams in the mosque, but from our parents and elders and the books we had read, that the Quran was in perfect transmission. Muhammad had transmitted it to his scribes, the scribes had written it down and memorized it, the Muslim people kept it in their hearts and recited it regularly during prayer, and it was easy to write and memorize. All copies today are exactly the same. That is what we were told. But as I read Sahih Bukhari, especially the book Fadil al-Quran, it became clear to me that much evidence of the narration I had inherited had been left out. The truth about the text of the Quran and its history is shocking to Muslims who I am sharing it with today, but it is well documented. Arabic writing was far from perfect at the time of Muhammad, which is why there was no such thing as a written Arabic book. When the text of the Quran was originally written, the letters and vowels had not yet been standardized, which led to confusion. For these reasons, what the scribes wrote was a memory aid for the oral text. This is actually a relatively undisputed fact even among Muslim Quran scholars. What is controversial is the result: the text of the Quran was fluid in Muhammad’s time. He recited the same verse in several ways, and he said he could do it in up to seven ways. If at any point a text needed to be abrogated, it could simply be abrogated and replaced by another. Since the text of the Quran was not seen as a written text, this did not pose much of a problem: all that was needed was to refrain from reciting some verses and “forget” what had been revealed. The advantage of a written text is that it should have clear boundaries. The book begins with a specific verse and ends with a specific verse. With an oral text that is recited in parts, repeated in various ways, sometimes abrogated, and never publicly recited from beginning to end, it is difficult to determine its exact content. For this reason, when the Quran was finally written down, there was much disagreement about its Sharia. We have already seen that the final version of the Quran was problematic for Ubayy, who claimed that parts of it had been lost, and Ubayy was one of the best teachers of the Quran. According to early Islamic sources, Ubayy had two surahs at the end of his Quran that are not in the modern Quran: Surah Hafd and Surah Khalil. Ubayy was not alone in including these surahs, as at least two other companions of Muhammad believed that they were part of the Quran. But Ubayy was not the best teacher of the Quran. When Muhammad gave a list of the four best teachers of the Quran, he first mentioned Abdullah ibn Mas’ud. He disagreed with Ubayy, saying that Ubayy’s last two chapters were divinely revealed supplications, not scripture. However, on the same basis, he disagreed with the modern Quran, insisting that Surah 1, as well as Surahs 113 and 114, were divinely revealed supplications, not parts of the Quran. He removed them from his final version, limiting his canon to 111 surahs. The Quran of today, not compiled by a teacher named Muhammad, is only one of many Quranic manuscripts that were officially approved by the Caliphate and became the standard text by burning the others. When this happened, the Quran changed from a primarily oral text to a primarily written one, and what had previously been recited from memory was now read from a page. The Arabic script, which was not yet perfect, needed to be standardized and finalized. The Quran is the driving force behind the development of this standard Arabic script.
Three hundred years after Muhammad's death, the Arabic script had become more or less standardized, so a scholar of considerable authority, Ibn Mujahid, ordered that all but seven different readings be outlawed. Some of his elders opposed him, because they had been reciting the Quran in what was now considered illegal since childhood, and they continued to recite the Quran in the same way they had always done. One of these, Ibn Shanabd, was beaten until he publicly recanted. The proliferation of different Quranic readings was thus controlled. However, these seven readings each multiplied once more as they were read by different recipients, until around 1924, when the Islamic world produced its first Arabic Quran. The Cairo Royal Edition selected one of the eighty readings for mass production, the reading of Hafs as narrated by Asim. And this is the Quran that most of the world knows today. But some parts of the Islamic world still have Qurans based on other readings, such as the Warsh reading narrated by Nafi. There are significant differences between these Qurans, but the vast majority are minor – usually just differences in intonation. Regardless, few Muslims realize that just a hundred years ago, there were about eighty different readings of the Quran in the Islamic world, and even today there are significant differences in the Quran. This is the real history of the Quran, not what the elders and mosques have told us. The Quran began as an oral text, evolved into a written text that was not unanimously agreed upon, and was even shaped and constructed by human power up until the 20th century. The textual transmission of the Quran has been obliterated by human contrivance and intervention, and none of the other reasons for the inspiration of the Quran hold up to scrutiny. There is truly no reason that would lead an objective scholar to believe that the Quran was inspired.












Chapter 40
Conclusion
There is no convincing reason to think that the Quran is the word of God.

As I studied each of the arguments for the inspiration of the Quran, a pattern became clear: I could find sufficient reason to defend my faith in the Quran, but none of the arguments could stand on their own merits. Could I persuade a careful scholar who had not previously believed in Islam? Could I continue to believe that the Quran is literary superior to any other book? Of course, I could reject assessments such as those made by my friend Mike or by scholar Gerd Poyn. Could I believe that the Quran contains miraculous prophetic knowledge? Yes, I could find such knowledge in the text, even if it was not obvious to others. Could I believe that the Quran was miraculously preserved? Yes, I could assume that Allah guided the Quran throughout its formation and evolution to keep it faithful to its original text. But none of the arguments are convincing to an objective scholar. The Quran cannot be used as a miraculous argument to convince someone who has carefully examined the evidence. And that was me: someone who wanted to believe in the inspiration of the Quran, but would only do so if the evidence was strong. After carefully examining five common arguments, I saw that they were not strong enough to prove faith, but in fact had to be proven by faith.





Conclusion on Question 2
Islam or Christianity?
The evidence is clear.

Assessing the Case of Islam and Its Efforts to Audit Islamic Roots
To be a Muslim, one must confess the testimony: “There is no god but Allah, and Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah.” The best way to test the truth of the testimony is to investigate the prophethood of Muhammad and the claim that Allah inspired the Quran. Even though my deepest desire was to defend the religion of Islam and remain a Muslim, the truth became inescapable: there was no reason to defend Muhammad’s prophethood, and there was no compelling reason to think that the Quran was from God. Once again, not only does history not support the traditional narratives of Islam, it shows that history is completely inconsistent with Islamic origins. When we use the same criteria to assess the origins of Islam that are used to assess the origins of Christianity, we find a gap in the historical record. The contemporary records of the Arabs of the mid-seventh century, supposedly the first Muslims after Muhammad, show that they are not referred to as Muslims and never refer to their scriptures, never mention Muhammad by name, never mention Mecca. And he did not pray towards Mecca. Given the vast body of records from that time, especially those from many countries conquered by the Arabs, this is not a reason for silence. The contemporary historical record is simply inconsistent with the traditional narrative of Islam.
Similarly, the history of the Quran is inconsistent with the narrative we have been taught as Muslims. We were told that the Quran had never changed and that every letter had remained exactly the same from the time of Muhammad to the present day. On the contrary, the Quran had been fundamentally transformed, initially as a highly fluid oral text and then transformed into a written text that remains, to varying degrees, mobile even to this day. Traditional Islamic narratives of Muhammad and the Quran are fundamentally inconsistent with the historical record. These are the pillars of Islamic faith, and their foundations are unfounded. This meant that if I wanted to remain a Muslim, I had to do so on the basis of some reason other than objective truth. I could remain a Muslim because I liked the Islamic message, because I wanted to have religious order, or because I just wanted to please my family. But if Islam had taught me anything, it was that I should submit to God, not man. This meant following the truth, no matter where it led. Of course, the reason I was researching Islam was to answer the Christianity case. Now that I had explored all avenues, I had to be honest with myself and evaluate the Christianity case and the Islam case for the last time.
Evidence for Christianity vs. Islam
After thoroughly examining the claims of Islam and Christianity, even when I was a Muslim, there was no avoiding the obvious truth: the evidence for Christianity was much, much stronger than the evidence for Islam. The three main claims of Christianity, that Jesus died on the cross and rose from the dead, proving that he was God, are solidly rooted in history. Even though Islam denies these points, I concluded that the historical evidence for Jesus’ death on the cross was as strong as anything historical, that his resurrection from the dead was by far the best explanation for the facts surrounding his crucifixion, and that his claim to be God was the best way to explain the proclamation of the early church. These conclusions were not unique, but based on the consensus of scholars across the theological spectrum. In other words, the truth of the Christian message makes the most sense of the historical evidence. In contrast, none of Islam’s main claims for truth, that Muhammad is a prophet and that the Quran is the word of God, are convincing. Muhammad’s character does not lead one to believe that he was a man chosen by God, nor is it foretold in the Bible. He had no miraculous scientific insights recorded in either the Hadith or the Quran. Hence, it cannot be shown that the Quran was inspired by literary quality, fulfilled prophecies, mathematical patterns, or miraculous memorization. The traditional Islamic narrative is inconsistent with both the history of Christianity and its own historical record. To believe the Islamic narrative of Christian origins while taking the historical record seriously would require us to conclude that Jesus was a completely incapable Christian and that God was a deceptive God. The historical record of Islamic origins leads many scholars to wonder whether Muhammad ever existed, leading scholars to think that the Quran was originally a much more fluid and indeed a very different book than it is today. The Islamic narratives of Christian origin, and even of Islamic origin, are inconsistent with history. In other words, to believe in the truth of Islam is to ignore the historical evidence. As a Muslim, I wanted to base my beliefs not on blind faith, not on what appealed to me, not even on my family heritage. I wanted to ground my faith in reality. If I wanted to take the record of history seriously, I would have to abandon my Islamic faith and accept the Bible. But that would come at a great cost, essentially everything I had ever known. Is it worth sacrificing everything for the truth? Is the truth worth dying for?















Conclusion
Is the truth worth dying for?
Is it for that?








Leaving Islam could cost you everything: family, friends, career, everything you’ve ever known, and perhaps even life itself. Is it really worth sacrificing everything for the truth? The answer is simple: It depends on the value of the truth. When we consider the Bible, we uncover the deep mysteries of the universe. We find a Triune God whose love is eternal and absolute, who did not need the world but created it out of the overflow of his love. In him, Jehovah, we have a Father who loves us unconditionally, who offers us boundless grace, who comes to us when we turn to him, who makes us purposeful and arranges all things for the good of those who love him. In Jehovah we find a Son who is willing to bear our pains, who leads us through suffering in exemplary humility, who lightens our burdens, and who makes a way for us to live life to the fullest even if we die. In Jehovah the Holy Spirit, we receive our Comforter, who fills us with grace, transforms our hearts, renews our minds, and sends us into the world as God’s hands and feet to serve others as He does. The gospel is the answer to our individual pains, to the sufferings of the world, and to the mysteries of life. There is no God but one, and He is the Father, the Holy Spirit, and the Son. There is no God but one, and He is Jesus. It is worth all the suffering to receive this truth and to follow Him. God is more beautiful than life itself, and the one who loves Him is ready to die at the time of death, not only to glorify Him, but to rush to His embrace. Although we will die, we will live. Sarah Fatima Al-Mutairi knew this when her brother locked her in his room. She knew that there was a great difference between the path of Muhammad and the path of Christ, and she was sure of the truth of the Gospel. She decided not to repent because of her faith in Christ. On August 12, 2008, an article was published in the Saudi newspaper Al-Akhdood with the headline: “A member of Al-Hisbah assassinated his sister for converting to Christianity.” The article shared these details: “A Saudi citizen who worked for the Group for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice in the Eastern Province killed his sister on the accusation that she had converted to Christianity. According to sources close to the victim, the killer attacked her by burning the girl and cutting out her tongue. Our sister, twenty-six-year-old Sara Fatima, was convinced by the grace of our God that it was worth giving up everything to have Him. She chose Jesus over this life. It seems that she did not spend her last moments reconsidering her faith. Instead, her heart was filled with the sorrow of Muslims. In her final moments before her brother returned to take her life, she posted a poem on the Internet. Although he cut out her tongue and took her life, her living voice now reaches us. These are the words of Sara Fatima, who passed away:
My tears are rolling down my cheeks and oh! my heart is sad.
How cruel you are to those who become Christians!
Christ says: "Blessed are all who are persecuted"
And we endure everything for Christ's sake.
What do you care that we are apostates?
You will not enter our graves and you will not be buried with us.
Your swords don't matter to me at all!
Your threats are not about me and we are not afraid.
By God, I am a Christian to the point of death!
O my eyes, weep for what has been a sad life.
Because I was away from the Lord Jesus for years.
O history, record it! And O witnesses, bear witness!
We are Christians who walk in the way of Christ.
Take this knowledge from me and write it down well!
Jesus is my Lord and He is the best protector.
I advise you to feel sorry for yourself.
Look at your hateful gaze, how ugly it is.
Man is a brother to man, O scholars!
Where is humanity and love? And where are you?
I pray my last words to the Lord of the Worlds.
Jesus Christ, the Manifest Light of Guidance:
Change their hearts and correct their discernment.
May it spread love among you, O Muslims.
Amen Amen To my sister, Sarah Fatima, I say this: You were only a Christian for a month, but your faith is an example to us all. May your voice resonate forever, and may we follow you as an inspiration, even unto death. We are sure that we will soon be with you in the arms of Jesus.






