Let's get to know the Bible better.
T.E.
                                                        Era
                                                              Tash
(Bible Study)


Written by Rev. Saru Khachiki

Ilam Publications, 2007,
All rights reserved to Ilam Organization.




ISBN: 978-1-904992-54-7:

Know Your
                          Elm
Bible T.E.
                                       Era
 Saro Khachiki
                                                  it
Elam Ministries 2007
All rights reserved



Elam Publications
P.O. Box 75, Godalming
Surrey, GU8 6YP
United Kingdom


publications@elam.com
www.kalameh.com



ISBN 978-1-904992-54-7

Table of contents


Chapter 5: 1 The Bible, the Divine Book
                                                  Elm
Chapter 21: The Writing and Transmission of the Bible
                                                               Era
                                                                     Tash
Chapter 3: The Authenticity of the Bible

Chapter 4: Review of 45
                         Old Testament
Chapter 59: The Interregnum

Chapter 6: Review of 71
New Testament

Chapter 85: Archaeology and the Bible

Chapter 97:8 Prophecy and the Bible

Chapter 107: How to Study the Bible?

Chapter 119: How to Interpret the Bible

Elm
T.E.
Ara
Tish
                        it

Chapter 1

The Holy Bible, the divine book
                                                                                   Elm
T.E.
No book in the world is as widely studied, translated, and published as the Bible.
It is not included, and this is because the Bible is the book of God and in it
The revealed God can be known through the inspired Word. In this
                                                                                                Era
The chapter points out important factors related to the divine origin of the Bible.
                                                                                                      Tash
We do.
                                                                                                           it
The authority of the Bible
The Articles of Faith of our church begin with this sentence: "The Bible is the law."
"It is the perfection of our faith and practice." Indeed, the belief of all evangelical Christians is
Conservative 2: That's what it is about the Bible.
An issue that causes great disagreement in the universal church is the issue of
The authority or authority is 3. The Protestant movement in the 16th century with the slogan
"Bible Only" 4 came to fruition. But what was happening inside and outside the church
Protestants today understand authority differently.




1 Evangelical; 2 Conservative; 3 Source of authority; 4 Sola scriptura

The first 6 chapters


Misconceptions about authority
Those who reject the absolute authority of the Bible find it necessary to do something
add to it or replace it. For example, in the Catholic Church
"The Bible is not the only reliable source." "Hadith" is also parallel to
                                                                       Elm
The Bible is considered a source of faith. Another mistake that is made in this regard is
T.E.
                                                                                    Era
The argument made by some Christian groups is that the book


                                                                                          Tash
They put the other on the same level as the Bible. Christian Science and


                                                                                               it
Mormons are part of this group because they believe that the Bible alone is complete.
And it is not enough, but to understand it better, other writings are also needed.
In any case, whether the additional part is hadiths or another book, the result of this
It is possible that the Bible has its value and credibility as an authoritative and reliable book.
Immune to error.
In addition to the above, there are also some who consider themselves the center and authority.
They know that whatever is not consistent with their own reason and logic,
They do not accept it. As a result, they reject any facts in the Bible that fit their reason.
If it doesn't work, they reject it. The first group of events that are rejected in this way
supernatural phenomena such as the virgin birth of Christ and in general
All are miracles. Still others consider their own experiences to be a reliable source.
They believe that whatever they personally experience is valid and reliable for them, and
They do not need to refer to the Bible. All these positions cause
The Word of God can either be rejected altogether or be given secondary importance.
To be placed.

The Holy Bible, the divine book 7

The opinion of Christ and the apostles
The Lord Jesus Christ confirmed the Bible as an authoritative source. He
In one instance He said, "The Scripture cannot be broken" (John 10:35).
He said that people are mistaken because they do not know the Bible (Mark 1:11).
                                                                        Elm
(24:12) When he was tested in the wilderness, he was able to overcome by citing the Bible.
Satan overcomes (Matthew 4:4, 7, 10). Jesus Christ himself taught the doctrines and principles of the
He based ethics on the Bible as an authoritative source.
                                                                                     Era
The apostles also followed Christ's policy, because throughout the
                                                                                           Tash
The New Testament shows how
The Old Testament, as an authoritative source,
They quoted (see, for example, Galatians 3:8-22).
                                                                                                it
All their sermons and teachings were based on the phrase, "What does the Bible say?"
(Romans 2:11, Galatians 4:30)

Revelation
Revelation is the act by which God makes himself known to man.
Because of his sinful state, man is unable to take a single step towards
He lost the knowledge of God, because the contact he had with God was lost due to the sin of his ancestors.
Humanity is divided. Therefore, God's revelation is practical and necessary (1)
Corinthians 2:11
God has revealed himself and his will to man in several ways.
Revelations of God can be seen in nature (Romans 1:19-21).
(Psalm 19:1) However, this revelation alone is not enough for salvation.

The first 8 chapters


Furthermore, God's revelation also occurs through conscience (Romans 1:11).
(2:14-16) For man has the power to discern and distinguish between good and evil.
Creation and conscience are part of "general revelation". But "private revelation"
There is also a "special" act, which is the act by which God brings salvation in
                                                                       Elm
T.E.
Jesus Christ reveals. This special revelation is given through the Word of God.
It will be realized.
The introduction to the Epistle to the Hebrews makes this point clearly: "God, who
                                                                                    Era
In the time of the predecessors, in various ways and through various means, through the prophets to our fathers.
                                                                                          Tash
"He has spoken, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son" (1:1v.2).
Jesus Christ is the Word (John 1:1, 14) who revealed God to man.
                                                                                               it
Christ Himself said of the Bible: “The Scriptures make
"...testifies about me" (John 5:38). He is all
The Old Testament, which foretold his coming
He knew the word of God (Luke 27:24, 44), and when
He was talking about the coming of the Holy Spirit, in fact, the writings of
The New Testament
He also confirmed it (John 14:12, 26:16, 13).
The above comments show that the Bible is a goal in itself.
It is not a book, but rather a means chosen by God to convey the message of salvation in written form.
And include the fixed in it. Christians do not worship the Bible, they worship Christ.
They praise the one introduced in the Bible.
The contents of the Bible are not entirely revealed truths. Some parts
It includes general information, such as historical events or common customs.
related to a specific place and time. However, the Bible often gives divine reason.
It mentions these events, which are in fact an explanatory and interpretative account of history.

The Holy Bible, the divine book 9

The captivity of Israel and Judah is a historical event, but the reason
Their captivity, which was indeed distance from God, is a revealed truth.
Meanwhile, there are events in the Bible that defy human understanding.
The birth of Christ from a virgin is an example of these events. Only one of
                                                                        Elm
T.E.
It is through revelation that man can accept this issue.
There are other things in the Bible that are "truth statements."
They call it 1. This material includes doctrinal teachings that come directly from God.
                                                                                     Era
It has been brought to man by the Holy Spirit. Often this type of material is accompanied by the phrase
                                                                                           Tash
"The Lord says" begins.
                                                                                                it
Inspiration
God conveys His revelation to man through inspiration.
The writers of the Bible were under the influence of the Holy Spirit and were able to convey God's message.
They write it down, so that the message remains error-free. Our church
The New Testament is God's verbal inspiration and revelation of God to the Old Testament and the faith that
Being human, immune from error and the perfect divine law for faith and conduct
2 Timothy 3:15-17, 1 Thessalonians 2:13, 2 Peter 2:13
(21:1)
Now, let's look at the part of the Bible that is most concerned with inspiration.
He speaks, we examine him.



1 Propositional truth

The first 10 chapters


2 Timothy 3:7-15
The scriptures discussed here are called "holy" (verses 15 and 16).
In this way, it is separated and distinguished from other books in the world.
As we will see in future lessons, among the Jews, religious books
                                                                       Elm
There were many, but none of them were considered divinely inspired.
Paul
The apostle here refers to a scripture that we call
We call it the Old Testament.
Verse 16 states that these scriptures are "breathed out by inspiration of God."
                                                                                    Era
The phrase inside quotation marks is just one word in Greek, which
                                                                                          Tash
A more accurate translation is: "God breathed." 1. So the author of the Bible himself
God. The breath or breath of God in the Bible is a symbol of the Holy Spirit. So
                                                                                               it
It can be concluded that here the third person of the Trinity is involved in inspiring
The Bible has been active. In connection with these verses, special attention should be paid to
2 Peter 1:21: "For prophecy never came by the will of man, but
"The men, filled with the Holy Spirit, spoke from God." From this verse
It is inferred that God Himself is the source of the Bible, the Holy Spirit.
It is the agent by which the Holy Book is given, and man is the instrument by which
Under the guidance of the Spirit, he wrote the Bible in a manuscript.
To be more precise, what Paul says in 2 Timothy 3:15-17
He says, just to
The Old Testament is called the Old Testament. But the principles of inspiration include the present.
ف
The New Testament is also called the New Testament, because the apostle Peter listed Paul's epistles in order.
"The rest of the Scriptures" (2 Peter 3:16).


1 Theopneustos

The Holy Bible, the divine book 11

The Use and Purpose of the Bible
The "authoritative, revealed, and inspired Word of God" can teach you wisdom for
"Salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus" (2 Timothy 3:15).
From beginning to end, the Bible presents God's plan of salvation through Christ.
                                                                         Elm
Man designs, presents. John 5:38, Acts 10:43, Romans
(Read 16:25, 26.) And the true wisdom or knowledge of this salvation is only in you.
It is made possible through the message of God’s Word (Psalm 19:7, 98:119).
                                                                                      Era
In 2 Timothy 3:16 we read that the Bible is also “beneficial.”
                                                                                            Tash
The apostle Paul then explains its usefulness in four ways. Two aspects
The first is ideological and the second two aspects are practical. "Education" for the establishment of truth
                                                                                                 it
"Punishment" or reprimand is used to prevent false and erroneous beliefs.
(1 Timothy 5:20)
Ephesians 5:13, John 8:16. Teaching and discipline
(Reproof in Titus 9:1 and 13) come together and indicate a positive aspect.
And they are negative teachings and beliefs of the church.
The two words in the second group are "correction" and "education," which refer to positive and negative aspects.
They reveal the negative aspects of the Christian life. The Bible is for reformation, revival, and
It was a reformation or, as one person put it, "to convince a misguided person about
"It is to correct his mistake and bring him back to the right path." The word "education" is as
Which obviously deals with personal education.
The ultimate goal of this fourfold application of the Word is that the man of God be "perfect."
That is, to be able, capable, and fit for every work (2 Timothy 2:15).
(Read also 21) and be thoroughly equipped for good works.

The first 12 chapters


The scope of inspiration
2 Timothy 3:16 adds that all Scripture is inspired by God. From here
That is when we understand that the Bible is "oral and comprehensive inspiration."
"Oral inspiration" means that the Holy Spirit inspires people in such a way that
                                                                            Elm
In choosing the topic and words, it has guided them in choosing the words they use.
They are actually the words of God himself in the form of the author's writing style.
It is especially necessary when a subject has eternal value.
                                                                                         Era
Every word of it must be presented under the direct guidance of the Holy Spirit, because one wrong word
                                                                                               Tash
It can completely distort the meaning of the matter. This is a fact that
Words cannot be separated from the message (John 6:63, Jeremiah 1:7, 15:19, 9).
                                                                                                    it
(See 1 Corinthians 13:2, Galatians 2:26, 3:16.)
The term "universal inspiration"2 indicates that inspiration is not limited and covers all
It encompasses all parts (all books - 2 Timothy 3:16). One reason
Well, for the inspiration of the entire Bible, Revelation 18:22 and 19.
It is no coincidence that this serious warning is found in the last part of the Bible.
It is included! Moreover, the "comprehensive inspiration" also reflects this fact.
It is true that all parts of the Bible are equally inspired.
Although it is true that some parts of the Bible are more important than others,
Other parts are considered, but this does not mean that these parts
They are at a higher level in terms of inspiration. Thank God that God has given us



1 Verbal inspiration; 2 Plenary inspiration

The Holy Bible, the divine book 13

It doesn't put us in a position to determine which other part is more "inspiring"!
René Pachi1 says about this in a book:
"Because of the fall of man, full inspiration is a necessity. If
The Bible was a book containing both right and wrong beliefs, then for
                                                                       Elm
T.E.
Distinguishing divine truths from human errors is a necessary decision that we ourselves must make.
If man did not receive precise standards from above,
How could he distinguish between what is divine and what is human? What
                                                                                    Era
Fallen and sinful man thinks about God, is full of stumbling blocks, and
                                                                                          Tash
"It is generally unreliable."
                                                                                               it
False theories about inspiration
All who claim to be Christians must necessarily question the issue of oral inspiration and
They do not accept the Bible as a whole. Below are the opposing theories that exist between these two.
The common group is:

1- Natural inspiration: According to this theory, the Bible is as infallible as other books.
Literary, inspiring, in the sense that the Bible is a human book.
and has been written by experienced religious experts. In other words,
The Bible with the works of the world's great writers such as Shakespeare, Homer, Dante,
There is no difference between Saadi and Khayyam.




1 Rene Pache

The first 14 chapters


2-Directive inspiration: According to this theory, the biblical writers, such as
Christians today, who are sometimes guided by God on a matter,
At that time, they were guided to write down the truths they received from God. But
There are verses in the Bible that refute this theory, such as Deuteronomy.
                                                                       Elm
Proverbs 2:4, 32:12, 5:30, 6:19, Revelation 18:22, 19. Furthermore, this theory
It says that there is no specific criterion by which one can distinguish truth from fiction.
He recognized the lie, because "inspiration" always happens.
                                                                                    Era
                                                                                          Tash
3-Perceptual inspiration: This theory claims that what has an inspirational aspect,
The perceptions and thoughts of the Bible writers, not their words, were. But in rejecting this,
Theory must say how can inspired thoughts be understood unless they
Are they pronounced as words? Secondly, what if some words are wrong?
Can they be distinguished? Humans are subject to mentalism, introversion, and
His intellectual limitations make him incapable of having an opinion or decision on this matter.
Even in accepting the ideas of the Bible as inspired,
It is not necessary for him to be the decision maker verbally.

4-Relaxed inspiration: According to this false belief, only parts of
The Bible is inspired by God, not the entire Bible! The slogan of the supporters of this theory
This is: "The Bible contains the word of God, not the word of God itself." Some
They say that there are myths, legends, and errors in the Bible that
Inspiration makes it all impossible. Therefore, they conclude that only
The spiritual and moral teachings of the Bible are inspired. But this theory, this

The Holy Bible, the divine book 15

It ignores the fact that many of the basic teachings of the Bible are based on
Historical events such as creation, exodus, incarnation, crucifixion, and resurrection
Christ stands firm. If we say that some of these events are wrong, or
They are nothing more than myths, so how can we be sure that
                                                                        Elm
Are the teachings based on these events true?
T.E.
-5. "Christology" theory: Followers of this theory say that only Christ is the "Word"
                                                                                     Era
"God" and one should believe in Him, not in a book. At first glance, this theory
                                                                                           Tash
It seems perfectly spiritual and harmless, but it raises the question:
ً
Naturally, the answer must be: "Christ." Which Christ is being spoken of?
                                                                                                it
"The Bible," because there is nothing significant outside the Bible.
Who can introduce him? The Bible speaks about him from beginning to end.
It says. The Bible is the written Word of God, which speaks of the living Word of God.
That is, Christ speaks.

6-Mechanical spelling theory: Based on this theory, the authors
The Bible was like a lifeless typewriter that the Holy Spirit wrote the contents of.
He used them to machine the divine. All the content and words were created by
"Typewriter" has been prepared, and the typewriter has no involvement in the preparation of the material.
Consequently, this theory denies the fact that the characteristics of
The ethics, writing style, and feelings of the biblical writers in
Their books have been implicated. If, on the impossible assumption, this theory is correct,

The first 16 chapters


If it were, then all the pages of the Bible would be completely different in terms of writing style.
They would be the same shape, but we see that they are not.

-7 "Empirical" theory: Followers of this theory believe that it is not true.
                                                                          Elm
T.E.
Let us say: "The Bible is the Word of God," but rather we should say: "The Bible is
The Word of God can speak to a person's heart. In other words,

                                                                                       Era
The Bible is the Word of God when it has an impact on someone, but it is not a book.

                                                                                             Tash
It is soulless and useless and has no other use. But this theory is also rejected.

                                                                                                  it
because it considers the reality and power of the Bible to be subject to human experience. But
Who can say that human experiences are always true? This
It is an undeniable fact that the Bible contains objective truths.
Which remains valid regardless of whether someone experiences it or not.

Infallibility
The Bible is an infallible and completely reliable book because
It was inspired by the Holy Spirit, and its purpose was to
lead people to Christ. As a result, God has made His Word available in every form.
He has kept mistakes and errors safe. God cannot lie.
(Titus 2:1) He has spoken to us through His word, which endures forever.
(Isaiah 8:40, 1 Peter 1:23-25, Psalm 1:19, 89:1)

The Holy Bible, the divine book 17

The testimony of the Bible itself
Authors
The Old Testament claims to be the words of God himself.
The number of verses that refer to this is estimated at 4,000.
(For example, see the following verses: Deuteronomy 1:6, 2:4, 2-6)
                                                                         Elm
Psalms 10, 12, 32, 42:119, 7:19, 96, 140, 142, 151, 160, 172.
In the Bible, it is often accompanied by a phrase such as "This is the word of the Lord," or "Thou shalt not."
"The Lord says," we encounter, which indicates that God
                                                                                      Era
He directly said these words to the writers.
                                                                                            Tash
Jesus Christ also testified to the authenticity and inerrancy of the Bible.
See Matthew 18:5 and John 10:35. The apostles also preached on a large scale.
                                                                                                 it
ف
The Old Testament was quoted as the Word of God (see Romans 12:7).
Hebrews 12:4, James 5:4, Revelation 1:22-25, 18:22, etc. (19)

Infallibility range
To better understand the reality of the inerrancy of the Bible, see the following:
Please note the following:

1-Inerrancy only applies to the original copies of the Bible.
As will be seen in later lessons, we do not have any of the versions
We do not have the original Bible in our possession. It is likely that when copying from
There were errors in the original versions.
-2 It is true that the contents of the Bible are infallible and reliable.
They are, but that doesn't mean that everything in them is approved by God.

18 first chapters


For example, a complete, accurate, and correct description of the sins of individuals in
We read the Bible, but that doesn't show that God forgives these sins.
praises and approves. In other cases, some people say
We believe that it does not contain correct teaching and, as a result, should not be followed.
                                                                         Elm
T.E.
He did, like the words of Job's wife who said, "Cease from God and die!"
3-There is no guarantee that all people will read the Bible correctly and
Interpretation of the Bible is a human act, and
                                                                                      Era
I wish it were always done with the full guidance of the Holy Spirit. But considering
                                                                                            Tash
Human limitations, the possibility of error in interpreting the Word, are immune to God's error.
There is.
                                                                                                 it
Enlightenment (Ishrah)
It was said that the divine author of the Bible is the Holy Spirit.
He is also the divine interpreter of the Bible. It is the Holy Spirit who leads the believer to
Guides into all truth (John 13:16) and enlightens or enlightens the mind
And the spirit is the work of the Holy Spirit, and it is through this that man can
Understand spiritual truths.
Man is blind without the saving grace of God (2 Corinthians 4:4).
The result of spiritual insight to understand the kingdom of God and spiritual realities
Only when one is born of the Spirit of God can one know the truths.
understand the Bible). It is necessary in this case to read 1 Corinthians 2:9-16.
(Read. Believers should always keep in mind that the Holy Spirit

The Holy Bible, the divine book 19

He is the one who guides into all truth (John 13:14, 16) and makes all things known.
Teaches (John 14:26).



                                                                  Elm
T.E.
                                                                               Era
                                                                                     Tash
                                                                                          it

Elm
T.E.
Ara
Tish
                        it

Season 2

Writing and Transmission of the Bible
                                                                  Elm
T.E.
The Bible had more than forty human authors who wrote it over a thousand years.
And they've been writing it for five hundred years! In this chapter we're going to see this
What tools did the authors use for their work and how?
                                                                               Era
The original copies of the Bible have been preserved and have come down to us.
                                                                                     Tash
Old versions of it
Studying old copies of the Bible is very important. When
Believers of the 20th century should understand what the original copies of the Bible are like.
Efforts have been made, for the Bible, which is so easily in their hands,
They will value it a lot.

Old writing instruments
Clay tablets, stone slabs, bones, wood, leather, various metals,
Pieces of pottery, papyrus, and skin were materials used in ancient times.
They used it as paper. Stone and clay tablets were widely used.
The Ten Commandments were written on such tablets (Exodus 32:15-19).
(Deuteronomy 4:10, 34:1) But most of all, papyrus and parchment were used.

1 Paleography

22 Chapter 2


It was possible, so that most of the writings of the Bible were recorded on them and
It has been maintained.

Papyrus: Although this writing medium has been used for centuries,
                                                                     Elm
T.E.
It could have been, but it was the most common writing instrument until the third century AD.
Papyrus is very old, a scroll of this type has been discovered that

                                                                                  Era
It dates back to 3500 years BC!

                                                                                        Tash
Papyrus was a type of reed that grew in the swampy areas of the Nile River in Egypt and

                                                                                             it
A few other places around the Mediterranean Sea. In Job 11:8 and
It is probably spoken of in Isaiah 2:18, 7:35, Exodus 2:3.
Papyrus reached a height of 35 centimeters and was used to prepare
"Paper" was used. The middle part was made into long thin layers.
They cut and placed them vertically next to each other, then a layer
They would lay them horizontally. Then a kind of sticky substance would be applied to them.
They rubbed them, then pounded them to stick together and put them
Let them dry. Then, smooth them with the help of stones or shells.
They would then glue the different pieces together. A book called this
The form was prepared, they called it Babylon or Babylon 1. It is very likely
The New Testament is written on papyrus. All original copies of

Leather: made from the skin of sheep, goats, and sometimes deer, for writing.
It was used by the Iranians, Hebrews, and Greeks.

1 Biblos or Biblion

Writing and Transmission of the Bible 23

The oldest parchment scroll dates back to 1500 BC. The parchment
First they dipped it in lemon juice, then they stripped off its wool and hair, then
They washed it, dried it, and stretched it on a frame. Then they
Pumice and soft plaster were rubbed on it until its surface was smooth.
                                                                           Elm
T.E.
In the third or fourth century AD, animal skins were considered the best means of
The writing was for everyone's use. Therefore, all versions of
New Testament of
In the 4th to 14th centuries, they were written on parchment instead of papyrus.
                                                                                        Era
In 331 AD, by order of Constantine, Roman Emperor, fifty volumes
                                                                                              Tash
The Bible was written on parchment and sent to churches.
                                                                                                   it
Old writing tool
The steel or bone pen was the most common writing instrument used for
Writing was done on wax or clay tablets. One end of this pen, made of
It was made of steel, bone, or ivory, sharp and its other end was pointed to
They can use it to correct written mistakes.

Reed pen: This pen was used to write on leather or papyrus.
Probably all papyrus manuscripts ever found were written with this type of pen.
In ancient times, the tip of a pen was threaded with a reed and shaped into a brush.
Later, they sharpened the tip of the pen and made a slit in the middle, which
They would take it out.
It was not a big deal.



1 Stylus

24Chapter Two


Fountain pen: This pen was probably used when it was made of leather.
The delicate skin of calves and goats was used for writing. Its tip was like the tip of a pen.
The straw was sharp.

Compound: In the Elm
T.E.
The New Testament mentions this word three times: 2 Corinthians 3:3
2 John 12, 3 John 12. Prepare the compound from a solution of soot and plant sap.
In Persian, they also called it black because of its color. In Greek,
                                                                                      Era
(The word for ink also means "black"). A type of
                                                                                            Tash
There was also another ink available, which was made from masu and had a rusty brown color.
Other ink colors such as red, purple, gold or silver are also available.
It was occasionally consumed.

Book shape
Scroll: First century books were made up of papyrus scrolls.
Separate sheets of papyrus were glued together and then wrapped around a stick.
They were rolling the scrolls. The width of each column was no more than 8 centimeters.
Greek, usually did not exceed one meter in length, so it was used for long texts.
How many scrolls were needed? Scholars estimate that for each of the two
Long book
New Testament - Gospel of Luke and Acts of the Apostles - An Ordinary Scroll
A single verse is used because both of these books were written by Luke.
They can be considered a two-volume set.

Writing and Transmission of the Bible 25

There were some problems with the scroll, especially in terms of finding the contents.
That's why they decided to make the scrolls into sheets glued to
They also resemble books and are called codexes.
Verses that can be found about scrolls include: 2 Timothy
                                                                         Elm
T.E.
Luke 13:4, where Paul speaks of "books...and scrolls".
17:4 and 20, which refers to the "book" or "scroll" of Isaiah that Christ gave to
It was also rolled up. Revelation 6:14 where we read, "The sky was rolled up like a scroll."
                                                                                      Era
"And was taken up out of the place." And Revelation 1:5 which speaks of a book or scroll
                                                                                            Tash
(New translations) When the text was written on both sides.
It did not fit on one page of the scroll, so the other side was also used.
                                                                                                 it
The codex was similar to a modern book, in the form of a long scroll. This type
Books became popular from the first half of the second century, and probably from the end of the first century.
Codexes were made of folded sheets of papyrus or
It was made of leather, usually made of pages folded four times.
They used it and tied the folded area together.
One of the disadvantages of papyrus codices was that the back of the page
They were also used for writing, while in scrolls
Papyrus was written only on the good side. Of course, leather codices of this
There was no problem with the comment, because both sides of it were suitable for writing.
Leather had several other advantages over papyrus. First, it was more durable than
It was papyrus, and if necessary, the writing on it could be carved and


1 Codex

Chapter 26

ِ
They said that he reused these codices.
The Greek word for it is "I have shaved again." About one-fifth of the manuscripts
"Unical" is of this type.
Codices had several advantages over scrolls: (1) In terms of finding the text
                                                                               Elm
T.E.
(2) In terms of collecting the four Gospels or Pauline Epistles in one
Volume (3) in terms of economy by writing on both sides of the pages.

Types of lines
                                                                                                  Tash
                                                                                                       it
Available versions
The New Testament is written in two distinct types of script:
They are usually called "unical" (uppercase) and "minuscal" (3 letters).
Small (they know.

Unical versions: This type of font can be found in early versions up to
This formal and literary script includes
(The word "unical" comes from the Latin word "unicalis" meaning "unique").
"One inch" is derived (although the letters of this type of font are actually one inch (2/3)
It wasn't a centimeter, but it was larger than the letters in regular fonts,
ِ
They were also called majuscules (meaning capital letters). For this reason, they
These letters were not connected and there was no clear space between words.
There were no early versions. That's why it was sometimes difficult to understand the material.




1 Palimpsest; 2 Uncial; 3 Minuscule; 4 Uncialis; 5 Majuscules

Writing and Transmission of the Bible 27

Lowercase versions: Along with uppercase versions, lowercase versions
There were also small, or "minuscule" letters, which were used for writing.
Non-literary, such as personal, business, or legal letters. Letters
These lines were small and tight, and they accelerated writing. From the 16th century
                                                                            Elm
T.E.
From the tenth century onwards, with slight changes, this script was also used for literary writings.
About nine-tenths of the extant Greek manuscripts
The New Testament is of this type.
The attached letters had several advantages over capital letters (1): Because the line
                                                                                         Era
It took up less space when glued, and was economical in producing books (2),
                                                                                               Tash
As a result, books became smaller and easier to carry (3), and because less time was required,
It took time to write, the books were prepared earlier. In the end, the top score
                                                                                                    it
This line was what made the Bible more widely available.
People, even those who were destitute, were included.

Languages of the Bible
Old Testament: Almost all of it
The Old Testament is in Hebrew, a branch of the Hebrew language.
It is written in Semitic, but it is an Aramaic language that is very similar to
It has Hebrew, used in these passages: Ezra 8:4-12:7, 18:6
Daniel 4:26-28:7

New Testament: All
The New Testament was written in Greek. Greek,
It was the common language in the Greek and Roman worlds. This language was called "Koine" (Greek for "Koine").
It also means "public".


1 Koine

Chapter 28


Bible copy transfer
It was observed how difficult and time-consuming the work of writing and copying was in ancient times.


                                                                      Elm
It has been overwhelming. For this reason, the number of copies of the Bible
It couldn't have been too much. This is especially true in the case of
The Old Testament is true.
It is.
T.E.
Versions of
                                               Old Testament
                                                                                   Era
It should be remembered that the original versions of
                                                                                         Tash
                                                                                              it
Old Testament and
ف
The New Testament, none of which are available. Considering the antiquity of these books, the place
It is not surprising that no original copies have survived, especially the books
ف
The Old Testament, such as the five books of Moses, was written fourteen centuries before Christ.
It is three thousand years from the time of Moses to the invention of printing, and in this
For a long time, they had to write the manuscripts by hand.
Given the great respect that Jewish scholars and scribes had for the books
They believed that the scriptures were sacred, and they were extremely careful in writing the scriptures.
The "Masorites" are an example of these people. Members of this sect, who have been around since the 19th century,
The fifth to tenth were engaged in the work of writing manuscripts, so much so that they were involved in the selection of manuscripts.
They were careful to write correctly and if a letter was missing in the manuscript,
It was wrong, they would have declared that version invalid! To prevent more or less
Adding a word to the main text, in the margins of the book pages, the number of words each



1 Masoretes

Writing and Transmission of the Bible 29

They wrote the line opposite it and also specified the word in the middle.
They were doing it.
Until several years ago, the oldest version of
The Old Testament dates back to the ninth century or
It was the tenth. But with the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls in 1947, copies
                                                                           Elm
T.E.
From
The Old Testament was obtained from the oldest existing copies, a thousand years old.
It was older, yet it had no differences with them.
In any case, the number of copies of the books in existence
The Old Testament is still lacking.
                                                                                        Era
There are several reasons for this:
                                                                                              Tash
-1 During the injustice and persecution that I experienced from emperors and kings
God's people were either hiding copies of the Bible (such as
                                                                                                   it
Dead Sea Scrolls) or were destroyed by enemies.

-2- After the scholars of Masoretic carefully examined the original and
They chose the correct one and prepared a standard version from it,
Versions that did not conform to this standard version were eliminated.

-3 Whenever a copy of the Bible became old and torn, or due to
A minor mistake would be invalidated, respectfully burned, or it would be thrown into the room.
They were hidden in a special room in the synagogue. In the 19th century, in one of the rooms
In the synagogues located in Cairo, manuscripts were found that were written before the
It would be around 900 AD.



1 Dead Sea Scrolls

Chapter 30

Versions of
New Testament
Unlike the versions of
The Old Testament, which is very small, has a number of copies.
Greek
The New Testament is over 5,000 years old. The oldest version belongs to
The Gospel of John, which dates back to the early second century, and also the manuscript
                                                                           Elm
Chester Beatty, written in the third century and containing parts of most of
ف
The New Testament. In addition, many other versions also include the books of the
There are, the following content provides information about them.
                                                                                        Era
                                                                                              Tash
-1 Papyrus manuscripts: More than 75 pieces of papyrus have been discovered,
They date from the second to the eighth century. These manuscripts contain
Parts of 25 books
They are New Testament.

2- Large-letter versions (Uniclass): The number of these versions is between 250
It is written on parchment, dated to the 4th century.
Eli is the eighth.

3- Minuscule versions: More than 2500 copies of this
The type obtained and their date are from the 9th to 11th centuries.

-4 Translations 2: The most important translations made from the Greek language are in
It was before 1000 AD. The most famous of these translations is
The Vulgate (3 in Latin) is a work by Jerome4 that dates back to the fourth century.


1 Chester Beatty Papyri; 2 Versions; 3 Vulgate; 4 Jerome

Writing and Transmission of the Bible 31

-5 Sermons 1: About 2000 copies of this type have been found. These
A collection of selected texts from the New Testament that are available throughout the year.
Churches were being read.

-6 Church Fathers: Scientists and Church Fathers of the early centuries from the writings of Elm
The New Testament writers used many quotations in their works. If we were to use them today,
T.E.
                                                                                    Era
We didn't have the New Testament, but instead all the writings of the Church Fathers.


                                                                                          Tash
If it existed, we could use them.
Let's create a new covenant.

-7-Ostraca: These are broken pottery pieces that are parts of
ف
The New Testament is engraved on them. There are 25 of these in existence.
                                                                                               it
Prescription location
The place where copies were made was called a "scriptorium",
The Dead Sea Scrolls were produced in such a place.
From the fourth century onwards, copying in the "scriptorium" became common.
Some experts were hired for this job. One person shouted loudly:
The count read the text and several skilled scribes wrote it down. In this way
Several copies were made simultaneously. Despite all these methods,
Well, the work was slow. The copyists usually worked on a
They would sit on stools and place the scroll or codex on their knees.
Usually, a traditional phrase was written underneath the manuscripts, indicating that this

1 Lectionaries; 2 Ostraca; 3 Scriptorium

32 Chapter Two


How much work affects the body. This phrase goes like this:
"Writing bends the back, pushes the ribs into the stomach, and weakens the body."
"And it wears out." But in some versions, this good ending is also seen as
"The book is finished, thank God!"
                                                                     Elm
T.E.
                                                                                  Era
                                                                                        Tash
                                                                                             it

Chapter 3

The authenticity of the Bible
The Bible consists of 66 books, 39 of which are
                                                                               Elm
T.E.
Old Testament and 27
Another book,
They constitute the New Testament. But because among the Jews and


                                                                                            Era
Christians must ask: "On what basis are there only 66 other books?"


                                                                                                  Tash
"Is the book considered part of the Bible or the Word of God?" In other words,

                                                                                                       it
Based on what criteria and criteria are some writings accepted as inspired books?
Some have been accepted and some have been rejected? This is a matter related to the issue of
Canon 1 Literal translation
The English word "canon" becomes "the word of God."
» ُ
"Canon" is Greek for "reed, rod, or stick used for measuring."
» ُ
It has been used. In addition, it has also come to mean a scale or criterion.
Rene Pace, in his book "The Inspiration and Authority of the Bible," discusses the Revelation
The Word of God tells man that God works in three miraculous ways:
"It gives inspiration to sacred writers and enlightenment to eager readers."
(light) so that they can understand the inspired text, and gives believers the power
It distinguishes and distinguishes the writings that have divine origin,
"They should know them and consider them part of the Word of God."

It is important to note that the Church did not give authenticity to the books of the Bible, but rather
He recognized the writings as the Word of God. In other words, the authenticity
The Bible is the fruit of God's inspiration, not the result of church approval.

1 Canon; 2 Kanon; 3 The Inspiration and Authority of Scripture, page 160

34Chapter Three

The authenticity of the books
                   Old Testament
Testimony
New Testament
The New Testament was written when the authors were in the second half of the first century.
                                                                     Elm
T.E.
It is to
They pointed to the Old Testament as a reliable source and the Word of God.
1-Titles given to writings
The Old Testament is used by: Authors
The New Testament uses the following titles for
ف
                                                                                  Era
                                                                                        Tash
The Old Testament used:


                                                                                             it
John 10:35 (1) (Word of God)
John 19:36, 2 Peter 1:20 (2 books)
Romans 1:2, 2 Timothy 3:15 (3 Bibles)
     John, 12:34, 10:34, 1 Corinthians 14:21 (4 Torah)
                             John 25:15) (5 Shariat
(6) The Torah and the Prophets Matthew 22:40, 12:7, 17:5, Luke 24:44, 16:16
Acts 13:15, 28:33
The "Torah" at that time also included the books of the prophets and the Psalms (John
(1 Corinthians 10:12, 34:14, 21:14) It is clear from the above verses that a collection of
There were Jewish holy books that were completely different from other religious writings.
It had.
-2 Special testimony of Jesus Christ: Three special cases in this regard
The importance are:
(1 John 10:35) "It is impossible for the Scripture to be broken."
The Old Testament in
At the time of Christ, it was considered an independent book with its own identity.

The authenticity of the Bible 35

(2 Luke 24:44) "It is necessary that what is written in the Law of Moses and in the Prophets and
"It is written about me that the psalm may be fulfilled." The Jews of these three parts
They recognized the Hebrew Bible. The last part, "Psalms"
It was a clear term for all the writings in the third part of the Bible.
                                                                        Elm
T.E.
The Jews had a place. We will talk about this again in this chapter.
He said.
(Luke 3:11) (Matthew 51:23) "From the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, which
                                                                                     Era
"He was killed between the altar and the temple." Both of these events occurred in
Old Testament writing
                                                                                           Tash
The first is in Genesis and the second in 2 Chronicles, which is divided according to the
The end of the Hebrew Bible was the last book. In other words, here Christ
                                                                                                it
To the whole Bible (
The Old Testament (refers to.

The New Testament of all the books
Old Testament: Authors - 3 Quotes from
The Old Testament quotes, except for the books of Esther, Ecclesiastes, Song of Songs, Ezra, Nehemiah,
ِ
Obadiah, Nahum, and َ َ
Zephaniah. That is, only 8 books out of 39 are not quoted.
ِ
In addition, we will see how each of the three parts of the Hebrew Old Testament is
ف
The New Testament has been quoted.

Jewish testimony
-1-Philo of Alexandria: Philo, a prominent first-century Jew who was associated with Christ and
Paul, who was a contemporary, testifies thus: "The Jews are ready to
"They will die but not allow a single word of their Bible to be distorted."

Chapter 36

                                             2
Josephus: This famous Jewish historian who lived in the late first century
"There is nothing better than authentic writings that are among the
Ours is not verifiable... because we only have twenty-two books that
The events of the past are recorded in it, and people rightly refer to it as the Word.
                                                                         Elm
"...The Jews divided their Holy Book into 24 books or scrolls.
But Josephus, in his enumeration, compares the Book of Ruth with the judges of the land.
And he has counted Jeremiah in one place with Lamentations.
                                                                                      Era
-3- The Council of Yemen: In 90 AD, a group of rabbis in Yemen who were close to
                                                                                            Tash
"Tel Aviv" is today's "They gathered and read the books that are in the Bible."
Hebrew existed, they recognized it. In fact, this is an accepted fact.
                                                                                                 it
It was among the Jewish people that the Bible was widely known in the time of Ezra, at the end of the fifth century B.C.
It was closed from the beginning.

The threefold division of the Hebrew Bible
The Hebrew Bible consists of 24 books, arranged in the following order:
They have taken:
1-Torah (5 books):
Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy

-2 Prophets (8 books):
Joshua, Judges, Samuel, Kings
(1) The Former Prophets (4 books):
(2) The Last Prophets (4 books):

The authenticity of the Bible 37

(A) Major Prophets (3 books): Isaiah, Jeremiah,
Ezekiel
(b) Minor Prophets (1 book): Twelve Prophets

-3 Psalms (11 books):
                                                                            Elm
T.E.
(1) Poems (3 books): Psalms, Proverbs, Job
(2) Five scrolls (5 books): Song of Songs, Ruth, Lamentations, Society, Esther

                                                                                         Era
(3 Chronicles) (3 books): Daniel, Ezra, Nehemiah, Chronicles

The authenticity of the books
                    New Testament
Authors
The New Testament writers placed the same value on their writings.
Which is for
                                                                                                    it
They believed in the Old Testament. They were sure that what they were saying was from
The inspiration of the Holy Spirit. This is especially true in connection with John 17:14, 26.
13:16, 26:15 are important. In at least two places, one can testify
The author is asked about the authenticity of another author's writing.
The New Testament observed.
In 1 Timothy 18:5, Paul quotes Deuteronomy 4:25 and Luke 7:10.
Dewi considers them part of the Bible. Furthermore, Peter also wrote
Paul ranks with the rest of the Scriptures (2 Peter 3:16).
Paul says of his writings: "They are on the level of the Holy Scriptures."
Hebrews are worthy of imitation (see 1 Corinthians 2:13, 1 Thessalonians 2:13).
1 Corinthians 2:13, 1 Timothy 1:14, 137. (John 1:1) claims that the book
Revelation is inspired by God (Revelation 1:1), and it repeatedly indicates that the messages and
His dreams come directly from the Holy Spirit (Revelation 1:1, 11).
(10:21, 13:14, 3:17, 2:4, 10:21) These verses, as well as others, at least in part,

38 Chapter Three

Indirectly show that the authors
The New Testament wrote its writings to
The size of the books
They knew the Old Testament as authentic and the Word of God.

Rules for the authenticity of books
The early church, without any doubt, believed in the Book of Mormon.
T.E.
He had accepted the Old Testament.
But in addition to these books, they should have known which writings
Christians, could have been part of the Bible. Among the multitude of such
                                                                                      Era
27 writings, written as inspired and authentic books, attributed to
                                                                                            Tash
It is important to emphasize again that these books were mainly selected before being
They were inspired and the church simply collected them from other recognized writings.
In any case, from a human perspective, there are five criteria for ensuring the authenticity of books.
Taken:
ً
Directly by one of the apostles - Mission 1: These books should
Christ was written or approved by them. Mark, although an apostle,
He was not, but he had a very close relationship with Peter. Luke was also a close companion.
It was Paul. Jude was the brother of Jesus Christ.
2- Educational content: The book should be filled with teachings.
The Old Testament and the teachings
The apostles, who were transmitted orally, were consistent.
3-Inspiration: Is there sufficient evidence to show "God-inspired" (2 Timothy 3:1-11)?
(16:3) Was there any evidence on the book? In this regard, internal testimony
The Holy Spirit was also considered a fundamental factor in the authenticity and validity of the book.

The authenticity of the Bible 39

4-Publicity: Is the book widely read in churches?
Could it be? This was a factor and a rule of action that was given by the Church Fathers.
It has been mentioned.
5- Moral impact: Did the book in question have the power to transform and reform?
                                                                       Elm
Although this criterion was apparently not as important as the other criteria, it was nevertheless important.
It was important that it was part of the criteria.
The date of recognition of the
New Testament
                                                                                          Tash
                                              All 27 books
The New Testament was not known by all churches from the beginning.
It should be remembered that the Gospels and Paul's epistles were more important than the others.
                                                                                               it
The writings were circulated and read between churches, which is why they were published earlier than
All were accepted. Books that were soon recognized by the church
The books are called the "known" books, and include the four Gospels, Acts,
Thirteen Epistles of Paul the Apostle (Romans to Philemon), 1 Peter, and 1 John
The other seven books are called "doubtful" books, which are:
Hebrews, 2 Peter, 2 John, 3 John, James, Jude, and Revelation.
Some of these books were unknown to some churches. Some books were also
Because of their brevity, they were considered of little importance, and so were the authors of the other books.
It was not entirely clear. It was for such reasons that the official announcement of the books
"Known"
The New Testament was made available by the church before the 4th century AD.
The books were accepted in the second century. These included twenty books.


1 Homologumena; 2 Antilegomena

40Chapter Three

There were seven-eighths of them.
They included the New Testament (according to research,
Of the 7,959 verses
The New Testament has 7,029 verses in these twenty books.
Marcion's Bible: Marcion is one of the heretics of the second century.
He is all
He rejected the Old Testament and only read the last twenty-two chapters of the Gospel of Luke and
                                                                        Elm
It accepted ten of Paul's epistles. A small and selective Bible
T.E.
                                                                                     Era
He points to the fact that the church had more books at that time.


                                                                                           Tash
accepted, and Marcion rejected the other books simply because he


                                                                                                it
His false teachings were not consistent.
Muratorian List: This is one of the oldest lists of books.
New Testament
It dates back to 170 AD. The only writings on this list are
Not mentioned are Hebrews, James, 1 and 2 Peter.
Athanasius: In 367, one of the most influential church fathers, Athanasius,
Twenty-seven books
He mentions the New Testament and adds: "No one knows this."
"The book should not add anything, and nothing should be taken away from it." After him, the leaders
Church leaders such as Chrysostom, Jerome, and Augustine agreed with him,
Number of books
Twenty-seven declared the New Testament.
Church Councils: In the late fourth century, the entire church debated the authenticity of
Twenty-seven books were unanimously agreed upon. Church councils, official books
ف
They did not create the New Testament, but rather what Christians had accepted,
They recognized it.

The authenticity of the Bible 41

The most important of these councils are:
-1. Council of Bishop Damasus in Rome, 382 AD
-2 Council of Hippo 393 AD
3- The Councils of Carthage in 397 and 419 AD
                                                                      Elm
At the Council of Carthage it was decided that in the churches only these twenty-three
Seven books are to be read as "divine books."
                                                                                   Era
In conclusion, it should be added that all the major sects of Christianity -
                                                                                         Tash
Protestant, Roman Catholic, and Eastern Orthodox - just these twenty-seven
ف
They know the New Testament. But unfortunately, this is not the case with the books of the Bible.
ف
The Old Testament is not true. We will discuss this issue here.

                              Apocrypha
The word Apocrypha is used for those Jewish religious books that
They have an uncertain and doubtful origin. The word itself is a Greek plural adjective.
It means "covered, secret, hidden". Apocrypha
The Old Testament contains fifteen
It is a book written between the second century BC and the first or second century AD.
These books can be classified as follows:

                         1- Educational writings or wisdom (two books):
                                                 Hikmat Suleiman 1,

2- Historical writings (three books):
1 Esdras, 1 Maccabees, 2 Maccabees

1 Ecclesiasticus

42Chapter Three


3- Religious epic (two books):
Tobit, Judith
4-Prophetic Writings (three books):
Baruch, Jeremiah, 2 Esdras
                                                                         Elm
T.E.
5- Legendary Additions (five books):
Prayer of Manasseh, Esther, Song of the Three Young Men, Lily, Belle, and the Dragon
These books were never considered part of the Hebrew Bible.
                                                                                      Era
                                                                                            Tash
                                                                                                 it
Reasons for rejecting the Apocrypha
-1 They have never been accepted by the Jews as divine books.
There are no quotes from them in the New Testament, although Christ and the
Authors
The New Testament knew about it.
-3 Historical and geographical errors are found in them.
-4 They teach ideas and principles that are contrary to the inspiration of the Bible.
is, such as:
2 Maccabees 44:12 (1Prayer for the Dead)
2 Maccabees 14:15 (2) Intercession of the Saints
Baruch 4:3
2 Maccabees 42:12, 46 (3 Purgatory, and salvation of souls after death)
Tobit 12:12 (4) Worship of angels
-5 In the list of sacred books prepared between the first and fourth centuries AD,
Their names have not been mentioned.
-6 They do not claim divine inspiration or authority.

The authenticity of the Bible 43

Opinion of the Roman Catholic Church
In the fifth century, Jerome translated these books into Latin, which was derived from the Bible.
He added (the Vulgate). But he noted that there was a difference between them and the Holy Scriptures.
There is a clear difference. He also added that their spiritual value is less.
                                                                         Elm
The spiritual value of the holy books is that they contain stories of non-Christians.
The Church Reformers, although always opposed to the reading of the Apocrypha,
They were not, but they were reminded that these books were on the same level as the holy books.
                                                                                      Era
But at the Council of Trent in 1546, the Roman Catholic Church
                                                                                            Tash
issued the declaration: "If anyone considers this series of books as sacred books,
"Whoever does not accept... be anathema!" The reason for the acceptance of these books by the Catholic Church is the existence
                                                                                                 it
There are contents in them that confirm their beliefs.

The value and importance of the Apocrypha
Since these books were written in the time interval between the two Testaments,
They contain useful information about Jewish life before the birth of Christ.
It is from these books that we learn that the Jews, after returning from the Babylonian captivity,
They had abandoned idolatry, and among them were teachings about the resurrection and
The idea of reward and punishment in the afterlife had become widespread, and the hope for the advent of the Promised Messiah (on whom be peace) was growing.
It had reached its peak of intensity. It is also one of these books that deals with Jewish history in
We are introduced to the New Testament, a history that contains
The Old Testament and the distance between
The torture and exploitation of the Jewish people by foreign rulers and their struggle for
It is about gaining independence.

Elm
T.E.
Ara
Tish
                        it

Chapter 4
Review
                  Old Testament
                                                                    Elm
T.E.
The Bible is not just a collection of 66 books, but a book that
Throughout it, we can see God's plan for the salvation of man, which was accomplished through his Son.

                                                                                 Era
Jesus Christ is executed, observed. Although the books of
Old Testament from 39
The book is composed, but there is one main purpose in it, and that is to discover this
                                                                                       Tash
It is the plan of salvation. This can be seen throughout the historical books, the writings of the prophets,
The Old Testament observed. The purpose of this chapter is to describe a
Overview of books
Give me the Old Testament.

ف
The Old Testament is usually divided into four parts:

-1 Torah - Genesis to Deuteronomy
-2 historical books - Joshua to Esther
-3 books of poetry - Job to Ghazal Ghazals
                                                  - 4 prophetic books:
(1) Major Prophets - Isaiah to Daniel
(2) Minor Prophets - Hosea to Malachi

In Genesis 3:15 we see the first promise of the coming of the Savior, and in
The last book
This promise is repeated in the Old Testament (Malachi 2:4, 5).
These two books, whatever we read, talk about the same topic!

46Chapter Four


Torah
The five books of the Torah were written by Moses. For those who are not familiar with this


                                                                         Elm
The following reasons, although they may be very specific, are doubtful.
It may not be, but it can be convincing.
1-Moses was qualified enough to write this book (Acts 1:11).
T.E.
                                                                                      Era
(22:7), and archaeological discoveries have shown that writing was common in Moses' time.


                                                                                            Tash
It has been.


                                                                                                 it
-2 The Torah itself claims that Moses wrote parts of it,
      For example (Exodus, 27:34, 4:24, 14:17, Numbers, 2:33 Deuteronomy) (29-24, 19:31
-3 Other parts of the Bible, besides the Torah, also make this claim.
(Joshua 1:7, 1 Kings 2:3, Luke 24:44, 1 Corinthians 9:9)
-4 The Lord Jesus Christ also claimed that Moses wrote about Him.
                                                    (John 5:45 and 46

Genesis
The first part of this book (chapters 1-11) deals with creation, the fall of man,
Noah's flood, and the division of the peoples of the world. Chapters 12 to 50 cover the period
It is the patriarchs, headed by Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. By
It was Abraham and his descendants that God wanted to fulfill His plan of salvation (3:12).
Abraham is also the spiritual father of all those who trust and rely on God.
and thereby become righteous in his sight (6:15).

Review
Old Testament 47

The geographical areas of the Book of Genesis from "Mesopotamia" where Abraham lived
He accepted God's call, began to spread to Palestine, and finally
The Egypt in which we find Joseph ends.

Exodus to Deuteronomy
Exodus is a book of deliverance and salvation. God's people, the Israelites, are captives in Egypt.
                                                                                     Era
But under the leadership of Moses, they are freed from captivity and set out for the Promised Land.

                                                                                           Tash
The important events of this book are the occurrence of the "Passover" (chapter 12) and the giving of the

                                                                                                it
The Ten Commandments are on Mount Sinai (chapter 20). It is from here that the Israelites are called
The people are organized under God's leadership. God gave the law for this reason.
He made it so that He could lead them. Furthermore, God would
In setting up the tabernacle of meeting, which was his special dwelling place and also the priestly ceremonies
It will be, it will be revealed to the people.
The Levites took their name from "Alevii," whose descendants were the priests of the tabernacle.
It can also be called the book of holiness and atonement, because it is
Detailed examination of the cleansing of sin, which had caused man's separation from God.
This can be seen in the form of various ceremonies (Chapters 1-7).
In addition, this book places great emphasis on the need for a proper relationship with God.
It has, and this can be seen in the form of the holy feast that their people kept,
(See Chapter 23.) The key word in this book is holiness. (See Chapter 23.) 11:44, 45, 2:19
(7:20, 26) God is holy and wants his people to be holy. This
A book more than any other.
The Old Testament presents Jesus as a sin offering.

48Chapter Four


The book of Hebrews, with its great emphasis on the theme of holiness, priesthood, and
It has sacrifices, is significantly based on this book.
Numbers, due to the census of the Israelites, which took place twice during their journey,
From the Sinai Desert to Canaan, the title of this book is (Chapter
                                                                        Elm
T.E.
1. (26) This book covers 38 years of Israel's history in the wilderness. The tribe of Beni
Israel, because of their unbelief on the way to enter the land of Canaan,
They wandered. At the end of the book, we see the people on the plains of Moab.
                                                                                     Era
Deuteronomy (meaning "Second Law" in the original language), consisting of three discourses
                                                                                           Tash
It is Moses, during which Moses recounts the law to the people.
The book is called Obedience. Chapters 27 and 28 deal with this subject.
                                                                                                it
It is important because it promises blessings and curses that are respectively
It is the destiny of the obedient and the disobedient. It was from this book that Jesus spoke when
He was referring to his own temptation in the wilderness (Matthew 4:1-11, Luke 4:1-13).
Finally, it describes the death of Moses and his burial by God Himself.

History books
Joshua and the Judges
The purpose of the book of Joshua is to show how God led his people to
The Promised Land of Canaan was led. In fact, the Book of Joshua is a continuation of the history of the Book of
It is the Torah, and its main character is Joshua, the successor of Moses. In this
In the book, we see the Israelites entering the Promised Land, oppressed by the inhabitants.
They pay it (chapters 13-22). Joshua's last words and death are in chapters 23 and

Review
Old Testament 49

24 is recorded. The famous story of Rahab and the spies, as well as the fall of Jericho
It is mentioned in this book.



                                                                       Elm
The book of Judges takes its name from the twelve military leaders chosen by God.
These leaders saved the people of Israel from their enemies. In
During the 350 years of this book, the people of Israel repeatedly abandoned God.
T.E.
                                                                                    Era
The key verse of this book is 6:17, "In those days there was no king in Israel, and every


                                                                                          Tash
"Everyone did what was right in his own eyes." Unlike the Book of Joshua, in this


                                                                                               it
The book witnesses the unbelief, failure, humiliation, and weakness of God's people. In this
It is a book that tells the stories of men like Gideon, Jephthah, and Samson.
We are reading.

Ruth
This beautiful love story is about a Moabite woman who converted to Judaism in
The story of Ruth illustrates the fact that even a non-Israelite
can enjoy God's blessings. Furthermore, the book of Ruth
There is another significance: Ruth is listed in the ancestry of Jesus Christ.
                                                          (Matthew 5:1

1 and 2 Samuel
These books record the continuation of the Hebrew monarchy and the portion that the prophet Samuel had in it.
Samuel was also a judge (1 Samuel 6:7-15).
(1 Samuel 3:20, 17) and the prophet (1 Samuel 20:3) and the period of the judges and kings together.
The people of Israel did not want to accept that God was the king and ruler of the people.

50Chapter Four


He is the one who insisted on having a king (1 Samuel 7).
Saul was chosen as king, but his reign was a disappointment. David
He took his place on the throne, and united the people, a nation with an identity.
Through a series of glorious battles, he was able to defeat the Moabites,
                                                                       Elm
T.E.
The Ammonites, Edomites, and Arameans will be victorious. The Davidic covenant, which is in 2 Samuel
What is written in 7:4-17 is of great importance, because it promises an eternal kingdom.
Gives the lineage of David. This covenant was renewed to Mary by the angel Gabriel.
                                                                                    Era
(Luke 1:31-33) and also in Acts 14:15-17, 2:29-32, again about it.
                                                                                          Tash
It has been spoken. Jesus Christ, the Son of David, reigns forever on the throne of David.
(Revelation 21:1-8)
                                                                                               it
First and Second Kings
After David's death, Solomon ascended the throne and during his reign
The temple was built (1 Kings 5-8). The people of Israel during the reign of
They enjoyed an unprecedented economic situation. But Suleiman exploited
The Israelites were asked to build great buildings, to remove themselves from the heart of the nation.
Furthermore, due to inappropriate marriages, committing idolatry and
He rebelled against God. As a result, God raised up enemies against him to destroy him.
Punish him in this way.
When Solomon died, his son Rehoboam became heir to the throne. During
During his reign, the kingdom of Israel was divided. The northern ten tribes were ruled by
Jeroboam came and formed "Israel". The southern kingdom was also called "Judah".

Review
Old Testament 51

The prophet Elijah appears in 1 Kings 17. He and
His successor, Elisha, was a prophet who served in the northern kingdom.
The kingdom of Israel fell spiritually to such an extent that God destroyed Assyria.
He sent them to punish them. In 722 BC, Samaria, the capital of Israel,
                                                                          Elm
T.E.
It fell and some of its inhabitants were taken captive. Israel for a period of
It enjoyed independence for 200 years, but it refused to heed the warnings that God gave it.
He was calling out through prophets like Hosea and Amos. A century later
                                                                                       Era
With the fall of Israel, Judah also suffered its fate and was attacked.
                                                                                             Tash
The Chaldeans (Babylonians) were placed. At this time, the advice of prophets such as Isaiah,
Jeremiah, Micah, Nahum, Habakkuk, and Zephaniah were not effective, and as a result Jerusalem was in
                                                                                                  it
In 586 BC, it fell and the temple was destroyed.

First and Second Chronicles
These two books contain the same content as the First and Second Books of Kings.
The difference is that they pay more attention to the kingdom of Judah. 1 Chronicles
The Chronicles deal primarily with the reign of David, and Second Chronicles with the reign of Solomon up to
Includes the Babylonian captivity.

Ezra and Nehemiah
Both of these books are about the return of the Jews from Babylonian captivity, as well as
The rebuilding of the temple and the walls of Jerusalem are the events of these books,
It dates back to the years between 536 and 445 BC and is related to this
It is the events that Haggai and Zechariah carried out their prophetic ministry.

52Chapter Four


Esther
The Book of Esther contains the story of the Jews in the Persian court, in the middle of the century.
Before Christ. Esther, through her intercession, prevented the general slaughter of this people.
Although God's name is not mentioned in this book, the events in it show
                                                                       Elm
It shows that God protects his people.
T.E.
Poetry books
                                                                                    Era
Ayub Tash
Some believe that Job lived during the time of the patriarchs.
The best title for this book is: "Why?"
"Does the Just One Suffer?" The Book of Job, as the greatest book of poetic drama,
It is known.

Psalms
The Book of Psalms is often considered a Jewish religious hymnal.
Meanwhile, the book is a guide to the spiritual needs of believers, because
It is a book of prayer and worship.
In the
The New Testament quotes a lot from the Psalms, because most of the Psalms are in
Psalms (like the promised Messiah) are related to
(132,118,110,89,72,69,45,22,16,8,2) In other books this is usually
It is God who speaks to man, but in the Psalms it is man who speaks to God.
It is secret and necessary.

Review
Old Testament 53

Proverbs
The Hebrew word for the book of Proverbs is "mishel", which has the same meaning as the Persian "proverb".
In this book, spiritual and moral instructions are given for guidance.
There are people in behavior and life. Most of the proverbs belong to Solomon.
                                                                         Elm
(1:1, 1:10, 1:25) But other authors also contributed to writing this collection.
They have. T. E.
                                                                                      Era
Society
                                                                                            Tash
Solomon is also the author of this book. This book represents the thoughts of someone
He sees no meaning or concept for life because he does not have God.
                                                                                                 it
It says "vanity of vanities" and that "there is nothing new under the sun." Here
It should be noted that God does not approve of all the words of this book, but here
It shows us what an atheist thinks about life.

Song of Solomon
This book contains lyrical poems from the Bible. It talks about the purity of love.
It humanizes, but at the same time it directs our attention to divine love.

Books of the Prophets
Major Prophets
The Book of Isaiah is sometimes called the Gospel of
The Old Testament also said, because it speaks of the coming
Christ speaks clearly. This book, in terms of the quantity of material it contains,

54Chapter Four


It is placed after the book of Psalms, containing prophecies about Christ.
Its remarkable events, such as the virgin birth of Christ (14:7) and the death of his unbelievers (chap.
(53) Clear examples of the value of the book of Isaiah in the coherence of the entire Bible,
And how God's plan of salvation is realized. The prophet Isaiah in Judah in the 1st century
                                                                             Elm
T.E.
He served in the eighth and seventh centuries BC.
Jeremiah was a prophet of God who prophesied against Judah and warned the people.
that if they do not repent, they will suffer the same fate. Furthermore,
                                                                                          Era
This punishment was imminent and nothing could prevent it. Except
                                                                                                Tash
Jeremiah also made prophecies about the coming of the Messiah, such as those in 23:5-8.
There he calls Christ "the righteous Branch of David" and "the King," and in 31:27-40
                                                                                                     it
It shows the promises of the New Covenant, and in 15:33-26 the renewal of the promises that
In 2 Samuel, David is told about the eternal kingdom he was given.
Lamentations, written by Jeremiah, is one of the books of tragedy.
It is a holy book. This book contains the prophet's prayers for the destruction of Jerusalem and
It is a temple. Jeremiah has sometimes been called the "weeping prophet," and in this sense he can be considered
He likened it to Christ weeping over the city of Jerusalem (Matthew 23:36-38).
The prophet Ezekiel was taken captive to Babylon eleven years before the destruction of Jerusalem.
While there, he served other prisoners and reminded them of
It seemed that God had sent this punishment because of their sins and would continue to do so.
In this book we find a great emphasis on personal responsibility: God forbid.
The sins of the fathers do not punish the children, but rather their own sins. Service
This prophet lived between 571-593 BC. As a result, the destruction of the temple that
It happened in 586 BC, it was during his time, and he talked about rebuilding

Review
Old Testament 55

The temple prophesied (chapters 36-48). (chapters 36-40) about the promise of restoration.
It is spiritual (verses 25-29) which includes
It is the New Testament that God has made with people.
Closes.
Daniel was a contemporary of Jeremiah and Ezekiel. His book emphasizes the supremacy of God over
                                                                        Elm
T.E.
It shows idols and godless kings. In fact, these kings are under the control of
They were God's servants who used them to punish the nations. Daniel in 605 B.C.
BC. He was taken into captivity in Babylon and lived there for 75 years. His prophecy is
                                                                                     Era
The New Testament is concerned, as is the coming of the Antichrist, with importance, because it is related to the prophecies of
                                                                                           Tash
The Great Tribulation, the Second Coming of Christ, and the subject of resurrection and judgment.
This book also contains prophecies about the fall of the Babylonian Empire and the rise of
                                                                                                it
The Persian, Greek, and Roman empires have been destroyed.

Minor Prophets
These books are called "minor prophets" in that their content
It is smaller than the books of other prophets.
Hosea prophesied in the northern kingdom. His main message was that God
Israel, despite its spiritual adultery, abandonment of God, and worship of false gods,
Hosea expresses these things with a broken heart, because
His own wife had also betrayed him.
Joel is the prophet of Pentecost. The outpouring of the Holy Spirit, which is mentioned in Acts 2.
We read about it, it was prophesied in Joel 2:28 and 29. The main message
Joel's message was that God would judge Israel for its sins, but
Despite this, Israel can enjoy spiritual blessings.

56Chapter Four


The prophet Amos was a shepherd who spoke out against social injustice and sin.
Israel rebelled. He emphasized that a just God would punish sins that are not confessed.
Will punish.
Obadiah prophesied about the destruction of Edom, who were long-standing enemies of God's people.
                                                                         Elm
T.E.
Edom, which had reached the height of its power due to its pride, was overthrown by God.
It is thrown.
The prophet Jonah, who was a disobedient evangelist, learned to obey God through bitter experience.
                                                                                      Era
He taught God. The main message of his book is that God's grace includes everyone.
                                                                                            Tash
It will happen, and it will even include people as far away as the people of Nineveh.
Micah, like Amos, rebelled against the social sins of his day. In 2:5
                                                                                                 it
The birthplace of Christ was prophesied.
Nahum is a prophet of judgment and prophesied the judgment and destruction of Nineveh.
Habakkuk was a troubled prophet who did not know why God was punishing a sinful people.
He postpones himself and why did you worship idols for this?
The Chaldeans use it. But the main message of this book is positive and is repeated three times in
The New Testament quotes it as saying: "The just man shall live by faith."
"appeared" (4:2).
Zephaniah, during the reign of Josiah in the late seventh century BC, prophesied
He was trying to get Judas to repent. At the same time, he was preaching.
That the day of the Lord is coming soon.
Haggai and Zechariah with the events of the rebuilding of the temple after the return from the Babylonian captivity
َ َ
Their encouragement and persuasion led people to build temples.
Zechariah in terms of the prophecies about the Messiah

Review
Old Testament 57

It is important (for example, 12:6, 8:3, 7:13, 10:12, 11:4-11, 13:11)
(4:14)
Maliki is the last prophet.
The Old Testament requires God's people to keep the Law of Moses.
They also remember the last prophecy about the coming of Christ and his forerunner.
                                                                  Elm
T.E.
He brings about (2:4-5)



                                                                               Era
                                                                                     Tash
                                                                                          it

Elm
T.E.
Ara
Tish
                        it

Chapter 5

The period between the two covenants
                                                                       Elm
T.E.
There was a gap of more than four hundred years between the time of Maliki and the birth of Jesus Christ.
There is a time. This interval of time is often referred to as the period between the two covenants.
(Intertestamentals) are mentioned. It is necessary to fully understand the history of the Bible.
                                                                                    Era
Let's take a look at the situation in Palestine during this period.
                                                                                          Tash
                   Political history of Palestine
By order of Cyrus the Achaemenid, the Jews were allowed to return from captivity in Babylon.
Return to their land and rebuild the temple and the walls of Jerusalem.
In 332 BC, the Persian Empire fell to Alexander the Great.
Greek rule over Palestine and other places from 332 to 168 BC
continued. During these years, Greek or Hellenistic culture spread throughout the empire.
Greece was spread by Alexander and his successors. As a result, the Greek language,
It became the common language of the Eastern Mediterranean world, so that by the time of
New Testament,
Evangelists of the early church could travel throughout the Roman Empire and
language, preach the gospel. In the time of
The New Testament is also written in Greek, one of the languages
It was common among the Palestinians, so much so that Christ and his disciples spoke Greek.
And they spoke the native Aramaic language.
Upon the death of Alexander the Great, his empire was divided among his four generals.
Only two of these commanders are relevant to our topic. The series

60 Chapter Five


"Ptolemy", whose title was "Ptolemy", ruled from 320 to 188 BC.
Palestine was ruled by the Persians. After the death of Alexander in 323 BC, the general
He conquered Ptolemy Egypt and after a while Palestine.
occupied and took possession of Jerusalem. During the reign of the Ptolemies,
                                                                        Elm
T.E.
The Jews enjoyed peace and security and were allowed to live in complete freedom.
Practice their religious beliefs and rituals.
The Seleucids ruled Palestine from their headquarters in Syria from 188 BC onwards.
                                                                                     Era
"Seleucus" was a general who, after the death of Alexander, took Syria.
                                                                                           Tash
He and his successors all believed that it should be
imposed Greek culture on the conquered nations. Many Jews were reluctant to compromise.
                                                                                                it
They refused to give up their religious beliefs and were willing to be killed for their faith.
One of the Seleucid kings, Antiochus IV, was executed for blasphemy.
The Jews made a puppet for them to represent the chief priest. He was so
He had a wickedness that, contrary to his official name, "Epiphanes" means
He was "God manifested", his enemies called him "the
"Opimanus" they said means "madman."
When his attempt to conquer Egypt failed, he blamed the Jews.
He considered it his defeat. As a result, he captured some of them, and the walls
He destroyed the city, and plundered the temple property. On December 15, 168 BC.
He placed the idol of Zeus on the altar of the temple, and ten days later he sacrificed a pig in honor of him.
Zeus sacrificed on the altar. Jewish rituals were completely forbidden, and some
That book
Those who had the Old Testament or studied it were killed.
The Maccabean Revolt (142-168 BC). Led by an old priest named
"Mattathias" joined the event. This priest, the court official who was responsible for carrying out the

The Interregnum 61

Idol worship had come to his villages, he killed. As a result, Mattathias and his five sons
He himself fled into the wilderness. One of his sons, named "Judas", nicknamed Maccabeus,
(Hammer), formed a guerrilla group and defeated the Syrian army.
The purified temple was "reopened". I still remember this event.
                                                                        Elm
T.E.
Jews celebrate the "Feast of Lights" or "Hanukkah." Victory
Maccabees in 142 BC. Four centuries of Babylonian, Persian, Egyptian, and Syrian domination.
It put an end to Israel.
                                                                                     Era
The Hasmoneans ruled from 142 to 63 BC. Based on
                                                                                           Tash
The writings of the Jewish historian Josephus indicate that Mattathias' ancestor was named Hasmoneus.
It is, and for this reason his children also became known as Hasmonaeans, and they too
                                                                                                it
were ruling in Judah at this time. Unfortunately, during this period,
Lack of harmony and unity, crime and lack of security reigned. The Pharisees and
The Sadducees, who were two religious sects, also rose up against each other. All this
Hostilities and internal strife paved the way for the arrival of the Roman general, Pompey.
He made it flat and he added Judea to his other possessions. As a result, Judea
It became subject to Rome and was forced to pay tribute, but for
For the next twenty-three years (until 40 BC), he was allowed to rule for himself.
Be independent.
The Roman era began in 63 BC and lasted until the
The New Testament continues.
Herod the Great was crowned king by the Romans in 40 BC.
But because he was from the Edomite tribe, the Jews stayed with him for three whole years.
They resisted, but eventually surrendered.

62Chapter Five


Religious developments
Institutions

                                                                        Elm
Temple: The first temple, a thousand years before Christ, during the reign of


T.E.
It was built by Solomon, but was destroyed by the Babylonians in 586 BC.
516 BC. It was rebuilt. But the second temple was much smaller than the first.
It seemed small and insignificant. When Herod the Great took control of Jerusalem,
                                                                                     Era
In 37 BC, the temple was apparently not in a condition to be restored.
                                                                                           Tash
He even repaired it. Herod took action to win the hearts of the Jews.
He rebuilt the temple with a larger plan. The construction of the temple began in 20 BC.
It began and continued until the time of Christ (John 20:2). The most important center
Worship in Jerusalem was at the temple. Jesus and his disciples at the temple service
They would gather and preach and teach there.

Synagogue: There is no precise information about how the synagogue came into being.
But most researchers attribute it to the Babylonian captivity.
The destruction of the Temple in 586 BC. Ascetic Jews who had moved away from their homeland.
They saw a pressing need to gather and worship God. Instead of
Former temple priests, teachers were appointed as religious leaders, and
Instead of sacrifices in the temple, the study of the Torah became popular. Synagogues were the center
They were also considered socially and culturally Jewish because they were there every week.
They gathered to see each other and to teach children. During the
In the New Testament, there were synagogues in almost every city in Palestine. Even in

The Interregnum 63

Other cities of the Roman Empire where Jews lived also had this
There were synagogues.
Non-Jews also came to the synagogue. Many of them, who had changed their religion,
They were not satisfied, they turned to Judaism and synagogues. And these were the people
                                                                       Elm
T.E.
who responded positively to the gospel call (Acts 1:14, 42:13, 48).
Synagogues were actually a bridge between the Gentiles and the Gospel of Jesus Christ!

                                                                                    Era
                                                                                          Tash
                                                  Council:
The Sanhedrin, or Jewish council, consisted of 120 members, during the time of Ezra.

                                                                                               it
It was formed to implement the Sharia. During the intertestamental period, the number of its members
It was no more than 70 and it seemed that aristocrats played a role in it. This
The council was made up of the old chiefs (the old chief of the time and those who had previously
chief priests), elders (ethnic representatives of the people), scribes (which included
(Pharisees and Sadducees). Under the supervision of the Roman rulers, the Jewish council was in charge of religious affairs.
Religiously, they enjoyed complete freedom and also had a special guard (Matthew
Mark 26:47, (14:43) Jesus called Peter, John, Stephen, and Paul to
They took part in this council. With the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 AD, this council also
Dissolved.

Sects and groups
Pharisees: This group, along with the Sadducees and Essenes, emerged in the late second century BC.
The pioneers of these groups were probably the Hasidim (ascetics).
There were those who remained faithful to the law under the persecution of Antiochus Epiphanes.

1 Essenes

64Chapter Five


The word "Pharisee" comes from the Aramaic root "parash" meaning "to separate."
The Pharisees were those who separated themselves from all evil attachments.
They practiced and practiced complete obedience to the law. They were in the era of

                                                                           Elm
ف
The New Testament Jews were the largest and most influential sect of Judaism.


T.E.
Because of their fanaticism for unconditionally upholding the Sharia, they were in danger.
The appearance of hypocrisy always threatened them. Of course, one should not think that all
The Pharisees were tainted with this sin, because among the Pharisees, there were righteous people.
                                                                                        Era
As there were also Nicodemus, Joseph of Rome, Saul of Tarsus, and Gamaliel.
                                                                                              Tash
Even in Jewish traditions, seven different groups of Pharisees are mentioned, two of which
Its category is noble:
                                                                                                   it
-1 Pharisee "Wait a little" - who always pretends to be busy doing
Giving work is obligatory and good, they say to someone who has work with them.
"Wait a minute."
-2 "wounded" or "bloody" Pharisees - who were cursed for having their eyes on a woman
If they didn't fall, they would close their eyes and as a result they would fall to the ground or hit themselves with an object.
They were colliding.
-3 Pharisees "Shoulder" - who displayed their good deeds so that everyone could see them
They can see.
-4 "goose" Pharisees - who with bowed heads and hunched shoulders
They walked in a seemingly humble manner so as not to fall into temptation.
-5 "Accounting" Pharisees - who are constantly counting their good deeds
They were there to see if their bad deeds would be rewarded.

The Interregnum 65

-6 The Pharisees were "God-fearing" - like Job, who was truly "righteous" and
They stood in reverence for the presence of God.
-7 Pharisees "God-fearing" or "natural" - who are true sons of Abraham and
The Pharisees were real.
                                                                             Elm
Sadducees: According to hadiths, this group takes its name from Saduq, the chief
T.E.
                                                                                          Era
The Sadducees took over the priesthood in the time of David.
New Testament and

                                                                                                Tash
Even before that, and under Herod, they were in charge of social life.

                                                                                                     it
They governed the Jews. Unlike the Pharisees, the Sadducees were politically
They had a mild and liberal approach to the Roman government. In terms of ideology, they were divided into the following points:
They had a disagreement with the Pharisees:
-1. They believed in complete free will, while the Pharisees believed in divine predestination.
They taught.
-2 They denied the immortality of the soul and the resurrection of the body, while the Pharisees believed
They believed in both, and as a result, in reward and punishment in the next world.
-3 They denied the existence of angels and unclean spirits.
The Old Testament was considered authoritative and of great importance - only the fourth book
They believed in the Torah, while the Pharisees believed in the Book of
Old Testament,
They also considered Jewish traditions and hadiths to be the ultimate proof.

The Essenes: These formed the third main group of Jews. Of this group
The New Testament does not mention the Essenes. They were an isolationist group who lived in
They lived in various cities of Judea, but most of their residence was in

66Chapter Five


It was in the deserts of the Dead Sea. They lived an ascetic and communal life and tried to
They would eat simple food and use their hands to help their fellow soldiers.
They were similar to the Pharisees in terms of ideology. But because of their isolation and
The austere life and regulations they had, the completely critical mentality towards
                                                                      Elm
T.E.
Other Jews were raised in them. When they weren't working,
They wore white robes and denounced worship in the temple in Jerusalem.
They seemed to think that all of this reflected their critical spirit. Although in
                                                                                   Era
ف
The New Testament does not mention this group, but since 1947, with the discovery of
                                                                                         Tash
The Dead Sea Scrolls have received much attention as historical records of this sect.
                                                                                              it
Herodians and Zealots: These two groups were both political in nature.
They were religious, and had a strong hatred for Roman rule. The Herodians probably
They were organized through the efforts of Herod the Great. There is no evidence that
To show that the devotees (zealots) were before the time of
New Testament, independently of the group
They have been known.

Common people: Most of the Palestinian Jews (90%) were ordinary people.
And they did not belong to any group or group. They were called "the people of the earth."
Prominent Jews did not marry into this class, and so did some Pharisees.
They tried to avoid contact with this group. But Christ was there for them.
It was the "sheep of the shepherd" (Matthew 9:36) that he felt compassion for, and he became friends with them.
He could sit and stand freely.

The Interregnum 67

Scribe: Scribe
New Testament, teachers and official commentators of the Hebrew Bible
It was during the captivity in Babylon that this group was formed. Because of the attention
Much of what was being done at that time was done by the Law of Moses, a group of experts called
"Teachers of the Law" arose from among the priests. The most famous of these was Ezra.
                                                                          Elm
It is the priest (Nehemiah 9:8) of whom we read: "In the law of Moses
...he was a skilled scribe" and "he prepared his heart to seek the law of the Lord and to do His will."
"He had prepared it to bring it and to teach Israel statutes and judgments."
                                                                                       Era
                                                       (Ezra 6:7f.) (10
                                                                                             Tash
Most of the scribes were Pharisees, but a few were Sadducees.
They were dependent on them. People attached special importance to them, and throughout
                                                                                                  it
Judea and Galilee were doing their duty (Luke 17:5). They were called "Rabbi"
which meant "my master" or "my teacher", and was used as "teachers" or
"Teachers of the Sharia" were also famous. Their work had three aspects: (1) Sharia
They carefully scrutinized and interpreted Moses in terms of theory, and wherever there was a
It was not clearly stated, they explained it clearly. The result of their work
This resulted in 613 rulings, 248 of which were positive and 365 negative.
(2) They taught the Sharia to their students, and they did so with such
They practiced a skill so that their students, in turn, could teach it to the next generation.
(3) They put the Sharia into practice and relied on its implementation.
They supervised. This is where the importance of their presence in the "Sanhedrin" becomes clear.
It will be.

68Chapter Five


Samaritans: The Samaritans are not actually a group or sect of Jews. Although
They considered themselves true Israelites, but the Jews considered them outcasts.
They were considered to be non-native, because they did not have a pure race, and their worship was also illegal.
Their history dates back to the fall of the Northern Kingdom (Israel) in 731 BC.
                                                                           Elm
The Assyrians begin. The Assyrians take some Jews captive,
They filled their kingdom with their idols. Over time, some Jews
Gentiles and pagans intermarried. Worship of Jehovah mixed with worship of idols.
                                                                                        Era
He became a monk and during the intertestamental period he built another temple for himself on Mount Gerizim.
                                                                                              Tash
They built it, which was destroyed in 130 BC. However, they always believed in
There were those who believed that Mount Gerizim was the true place of worship for God. The hostility between the Jews
                                                                                                   it
And the Samaritans at the time of
The New Testament had reached its peak, but when the Gospel
When we read John 4 and Acts 8, we realize that the gospel of Christ
What power it has in eliminating historical hostilities!

1 Septuagint
As mentioned above, during the intertestamental period, the Greek language was
It was developed throughout the Mediterranean world. Jews who were far from their homeland
They were so exhausted, they could barely keep their Aramaic language, and they were
Those who lived in the city of Alexandria, Egypt, understood this.
The bitter truth is, they set out to write a book.
The Old Testament in the common language, Greek.
As a result, 70 Jewish scholars attempted to publish the greatest literary work


1 Septuagint

The Interregnum 69

At that time, they made a Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible, which became known as the "Septuagint."
It is well known. Although the exact date of the translation is not known, it is clear that
It was carried out in the middle of the third century AD.
The importance of this translation in spreading the Gospel of Christ cannot be ignored. This
                                                                       Elm
T.E.
When the translation was available to Greek-speaking people, both Jews and Gentiles,
The Old Testament made it familiar. During the
The New Testament was placed, filling them with the truths of
The New Testament was more commonly used than this translation, and the writers of
                                                                                    Era
They were quoting from
Hebrew Old Testament. Considering this, we can understand
                                                                                          Tash
The Old Testament in
The New Testament has been fulfilled, why are some quotations from it
It is not "word for word". The reason for this is that the Greek text is not literal or
                                                                                               it
It is not translated word for word from Hebrew, but an effort has been made in this translation to convey the meaning and
                                                      John Kalm
The Old Testament should be presented.

Elm
T.E.
Ara
Tish
                        it

Chapter 6
Review
New Testament
                                                                       Elm
T.E.
                                        New Testament, supplement
The relationship between these two covenants can be seen in the following:
In short, he observed at the beginning of the Epistle to the Hebrews: "God, who in time
The predecessors spoke to our fathers in various ways and through the mediation of the prophets.
                                                                                    Era
"In these last days he has spoken to us by his Son" (1 Cor. 1:1, 2).
                                                                                          Tash
The essence of the apostle Paul's statement: "When the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son."
ِ
The New Testament, God's plan, which He sent in (Galatians 4:4).
ف
The Old Testament was planned, completed, and implemented.
Now to the general review.
We are paying the New Testament.

The Four Gospels
The Gospels are the only authentic books in knowing Christ. However, we should not
He considered the Gospels to be biographies because they do not contain a complete account of the life of Christ.
It is better to consider each of the Gospels as a picture that depicts a specific aspect of life.
And the character of Christ is given. What is mentioned in the Gospels is to that extent
which knowledge is essential for salvation. The Gospels of His eternal existence
They begin and end with his ascension, and the explanation they give about this,
It is more than a simple report. Below is a brief description of the identity
We will discuss the author, content, and purpose of each of the four Gospels.

72Chapter Six


                                                                   Matthew
The author of the Gospel of Matthew was a disciple of Christ and, before his faith, a tax collector.
He was also known as Levi. His gospel presented Jesus as the promised Messiah.
And the king who, according to
The Old Testament introduces, should sit on the throne of David
                                                                          Elm
And for this reason it is thought to have been written to the Jews.
The genealogy is selective and is intended to show that Jesus is the Son of God.
Christ is from the lineage of David.
                                                                                       Era
                                                                                             Tash
The shortest Gospel was written by Mark. Mark's name is
                                                                Mark
                                                                                                  it
It can be seen in Acts 5:13, 12:12, and 2 Timothy 11:4. Then
From these events mentioned in Acts, he had a friendly relationship with Peter and
He established a close relationship that enabled him to gain the authority to write the Bible.
His emphasis in the Gospel is that Jesus is the obedient servant of God. Mark
He wrote his Gospel to the Romans.

                                                                  Luke
The third Gospel was written by Luke, "the beloved physician" (Colossians 4:14).
Luke accompanied Paul on his missionary journeys. He most likely
The New Testament is written by a Gentile. In that case, he is the only author of the
The Jew is not a Jew. He presents Jesus as a perfect man. Style
The excellent writing of the Bible, as well as its complete content, made it especially

Review
New Testament 73

to attract Greek readers. One of the hallmarks of this Gospel is
It is an account of the birth and childhood of Jesus.

                                                               John
                                                                        Elm
T.E.
The author of the fourth Gospel is John, the son of Zebedee and brother of James. This
The Gospel has a more spiritual and doctrinal aspect than other Gospels. Although it is for the general public
It was written not for a specific race, but its content shows that its audience is
                                                                                     Era
The purpose of its writing can be seen in 30:20 and 31.
                                                                                           Tash
The use of the Greek word "faith" in this Gospel shows that the Gospel of John
It was written to strengthen faith. The Gospel of John describes Christ as
He introduces himself as the Son of God and the one who existed from eternity.

The life of Jesus Christ
It is necessary to make a brief reference here to the story of Jesus Christ,
Because without it, the investigation
The New Testament will be incomplete.

Birth and youth: Jesus Christ around 6 BC in Bethany
The Lamb of God, born of the Virgin Mary, was born in the city of Jerusalem under the care of Mary and Joseph.
He was raised in Nazareth of Galilee. At the age of twelve, he went on a pilgrimage to
Jerusalem, entered the temple and called it “the house of the Father” (Luke 2:49).

Baptism and testing: Jesus was baptized at the age of thirty by one of the
His relatives were baptized by John in the Jordan River. At this time, by

74Chapter Six


He was anointed by the Holy Spirit and led by the same Spirit went into the wilderness and fasted for forty days.
The day was tested there. His victorious resistance to Satan made him
He was capable of serving among the people.

His public ministry: Jesus spent three years in public ministry.
The first year of his ministry, about which we know little, was in Judea.
                                                                                      Era
It's done.

                                                                                            Tash
In his second year of ministry, people were attracted to his teachings and his reputation as a

                                                                                                 it
The teacher and healer traveled everywhere. At this time, he was ministering in Galilee.
His third year of service was met with intense opposition. The conditions he faced for
He had a designated disciple, which led to many people wanting to become his disciples.
On the other hand, religious leaders voiced their opposition
They began with the ministry of Christ.

His Passion, Death, Resurrection, and Ascension: The Last Week of Christ's Life on Earth
The earth begins with his triumphal entry into Jerusalem. It was during this week that
Judea fell into the hands of its enemies through the traitor Judas and was crucified.
His resurrection from the dead, which occurred on the third day, shows God's approval of
His death is his salvation. Forty days after his resurrection, after he was
He told his disciples to stay in Jerusalem until they received the Holy Spirit, in front of
Their eyes were lifted up to heaven. The book of Acts is naturally the sequel to these events.
It is.

Review
New Testament 75

Acts of the Apostles
This book was written by Luke and covers the history of Christianity up to the seventh century.


                                                                           Elm
The book of Acts links the Gospels with the Epistles of the Apostles.
It is, in particular, a continuation of the Gospel of John and an introduction to Paul and his epistles.

The Church of Jerusalem (Chapters 1-7): The Descent of the Holy Spirit on the Disciples and the
Following that, Peter's sermon on the Day of Pentecost led to the conversion of three thousand.
                                                                                        Era
                                                                                              Tash
                                                                                                   it
The services and miracles that resulted from this historic day caused the spread of
Most of the church was in Jerusalem. But it was at this time that Stephen, one of the
Church leaders were martyred, and believers were persecuted as a result of the persecution that had begun.
They dispersed.

The Transition Period (Chapters 8-12): Philip, another church leader, in
His evangelistic ministry in Samaria and also in the testimony he gave to the official
Habashi Dad achieved remarkable successes for the church. During this period
One can clearly see the spread of the gospel from the Jewish people to the "half-Jewish" Samaritans, and
Then he observed a Gentile. The conversion of Paul of Tarsus, who
He became an evangelist and apostle to the nations, as is stated in this section. Through the services
Paul, Christianity gained a global reputation. The conversion of Cornelius meant a non-Christian
The Jew, through Peter, considered another reason for this period of transition.
Despite all this, the Church was still persecuted and tortured, and
By order of Herod Agrippa I, the apostle James was killed and Peter was
He was imprisoned.

76Chapter Six


First missionary journey (1:13-35:15): Syrian Antioch, missionary headquarters
The church was established. Paul and Barnabas, along with John Mark, were sent from here to
The island of Cyprus and from there they went to the cities of southeastern Asia Minor. But
Mark did not accompany them until the end of the journey and returned to Jerusalem. Paul
                                                                           Elm
He was able to preach the gospel to the nations with remarkable success. This is what
It led to the formation of the first Christian council in Jerusalem (chapter 15), which was
The issue of accepting Gentiles into the Church was raised. It was approved at this council.
                                                                                        Era
That circumcision and acceptance of the Jewish religion are considered a prerequisite and condition for Christianity
                                                                                              Tash
To be removed for the nations.
                                                                                                   it
Second missionary journey (36:15-23:18): Paul and Silas go to
He returned and passed through the cities he had visited on his first journey,
He went west. Following the dream he had, he set out for Macedonia.
He visited the cities of Philippi, Thessalonica, and Berea. From there he went to Achaia.
(Greece), stopped for a while in Athens and Corinth. Then he went to Palestine.
He returned and on the way, he went first to Jerusalem and then to Antioch.

The Third Evangelistic Journey (23:18-17:21): In this journey, the region that
The gospel message was first preached by Paul in the province of Asia and
Its main city was Ephesus. Paul was on his way back after visiting the province of Asia.
He made a fresh visit to Achaia and Macedonia.

Review
New Testament 77

Paul's imprisonment (18:21-31:28): Paul is accused in Jerusalem.
They lied that a non-Jew had taken someone into a forbidden area of the temple.
Following this accusation, the people rushed towards Paul, but the Roman officer was in time.
He arrived and saved him. But due to the Jews' persistent accusations, Paul was imprisoned for a long time.
                                                                          Elm
T.E.
He remained in prison for two years. As a Roman citizen, he was deprived of his rights.
He appealed to Caesar and his request was granted. When he
Arriving in Rome, he spent two years in his house under the supervision of Roman guards.
                                                                                       Era
During this time, he began writing letters known as "Prison Letters" and
                                                                                             Tash
They are Philippians, Colossians, Ephesians, and Philemon.
                                                                                                  it
                        Epistles of Paul
Here is a brief description of Paul's epistles in chronological order of writing.
It is necessary to explain that epistles are actually letters that
Written to individuals or churches and containing topics about beliefs and
They are Christian lives.

Travelogues
These letters were written between 52 and 58 AD, that is, during the second and third journeys.
They were written by Paul.

1 Thessalonians: This was Paul's first letter, written on his second journey in
It was written to the Corinthians. One of the main reasons for writing this letter was to clarify
The subject of the second coming of Christ was particularly in connection with the Christian dead.

78Chapter Six


Second Thessalonians: This epistle was written shortly after the first epistle and is still in
The case of God's return raises issues. Because of persecution and
The severe persecution that befell the church at this time caused some Christians to
The Thessalonians thought that the day of the Lord had come. Paul said this
                                                                        Elm
It clears up misunderstandings and draws their attention to the comfort and grace of God that is in
It is their choice, it attracts.
1 Corinthians: The church at Corinth was facing many problems - division,
                                                                                     Era
Moral corruption, misuse of spiritual gifts, lack of proper knowledge of the Lord
                                                                                           Tash
God and the issue of resurrection. Most of these problems were due to the sinful atmosphere that
They lived there before they became believers. This letter was written in 55 AD.
                                                                                                it
It is written.

2 Corinthians: Some false teachers questioned the authenticity of Paul's mission and ministry.
This epistle is actually Paul's defense of his mission.
It is, but at the same time it explains the source of inspiration and the acquisition of the instructions of the servant of God.
The time of writing of this treatise is 56 AD.

Romans: Without a doubt, Paul's most influential epistle. This epistle
It encompasses the subject of salvation, from beginning to end, from the fall of man to the coming of the
The Savior and the Glory of the Saved Man. Treatise of the Year 57 AD
It is attributed.

Review
New Testament 79

Galatians: The key word in this epistle is "freedom." The originality of the mission and
Paul's teachings were challenged by false teachers. They
They believed that salvation could be achieved through good works. But Paul was not in this
The letter simply declares that the condition for justification is faith alone.
                                                                        Elm
and then adds that genuine faith will produce good works.
There has been much debate about the date of writing of this treatise, some attribute it to
The years 49-50 AD, and some attribute it to the year 58 AD.
                                                                                     Era
                                                                                           Tash
Prison letters
All four of these epistles were written in the years 61-62 AD, when Paul was
It is written that he was a prisoner in his own home in Rome.
Philemon: Actually a personal letter to a Christian in the city.
Colossae. This city is located in southwestern Asia Minor. Philemon the slave
The name of Onesimus, who had fled his house after the robbery, was discovered by contact with
Paul believed in Christ and Paul sent him back to his master. In this
Paul's letter asks Philemon to accept him and treat him like a brother.
Slow.

Colossians: glorifies the character and work of Christ and opposes the teachings of
It fights against errors such as Sharia-ism, physical asceticism, and Sufism.
Stein's New Testament contains the most beautiful "Christological" essays in all of history.
(1:15-23)

80 Chapter Six


Ephesians: Emphasizes the theme of the church as the body of Christ, and also
It enumerates the high privileges of the members of the body of Christ, who are in "heavenly places in
"Christ" are sitting.

Philippians: The note "Joy" is sung more than eighteen times in four stanzas.
It makes a sound! This becomes even more interesting when we remember that T.
The author is writing this treatise from prison!
                                                                                   Era
Pastoral Epistles of Tesh
These epistles speak of the last years of Paul's life, of the years in which
That he had devoted all his efforts to the spread of the Gospel.

1 Timothy: Written around 65 AD and includes
Paul's instructions to his disciple Timothy, who is now the overseer of the church
The main theme of the letter is about church discipline and teaching.
It is correct, and also has pastoral characteristics.

Titus: Similar in content to 1 Timothy, but with a different emphasis.
It has more influence on church organization and management. At this time when the treatise was written
Titus was appointed to the island of Crete to strengthen the churches there.
Supervise. The date of writing of this treatise is also 65 AD.

2 Timothy: This is Paul's last epistle, written shortly before his death.
It is written. In this epistle, he asks Timothy to continue, despite the decline

Review
New Testament 81

The clergyman of the church himself remains faithful. The date of writing of the letter is 67-68.
It is a new year.

The Epistle to the Hebrews
                                                                      Elm
T.E.
Although some attribute this epistle to Paul, there is insufficient evidence
There is no information available to determine its author. In this treatise, we discuss the relationship between Christianity and
The Jewish religion is discussed, which was one of the hot topics of the first century. The main word
                                                                                   Era
                                                                                         Tash
This epistle is "better" because Christ and
The New Testament compared to
The Old Testament of each
The opinion is superior. This treatise was probably written in the years 67-69 BC.
The destruction of the temple, which occurred in 70 AD, is written.
General Letters
The seven epistles written by James, Peter, John, and Jude.
They became known as general, universal, or universal epistles in the second century.
To distinguish it from Paul's letters, which were written to specific individuals or churches.
This condition applies to all the treatises of this group, except the second and third.
John is right.

The Epistle of James: Written by the brother of Jesus (Mark 3:6) in the year 44
He had become the leader of the Jerusalem church (Acts 12:17, 13:15, 19).
It can be said that among the books of
The New Testament, this book of all
It is more Jewish! According to this treatise, faith without works is dead. Listen.
This fact was a blow to those who thought that salvation was by faith without responsibility.

Chapter 82: The Sixth


It is possible, it was useful. The content of this treatise includes the practical aspect of life.
It is Christian and bears a strong resemblance to the teachings of its author's "brother" in preaching.
It is on the top of a mountain.

1 Peter: Written for Christians who are in need of comfort amidst persecution.
They were encouraged and encouraged. It is a treatise about the labors of believers, and
                                                                                    Era
It also has more practical points than ideological ones.

Second Peter: Written to the same group as First Peter.
They had received it. It places a lot of emphasis on false teachings. Therefore, this treatise
It is a warning to believers against false teachings that promote lawlessness and
                                                                                               it
He promoted al-Baaliyyah among the people of God. This treatise was written in the years 66-67.
It was written AD, a year or two after the first epistle of Peter.

Jude: In terms of the warnings it contains against false teachers,
It is very similar to 2 Peter. The author places great importance on "that faith"
"which was once delivered to the saints" (verse 3) and from the readers
His treatises are expected to follow this faith. Finding the date of writing of this
The epistle, written by another brother of Jesus, is a difficult task, but
It was probably written shortly after 2 Peter.

1 John: Written between 85 and 90 AD. Some
Errors were rampant in the church, including unbridled moral living and
Denial of the full humanity of Jesus Christ, which is why this writing is being done.

Review
New Testament 83

In this epistle, John answers these heresies and the readers
Encourages and motivates.

2 John: Written to a lady to warn her from the danger of false teachings
                                                                        Elm
T.E.
It warns. It is stated in this treatise not to allow false teachers into the house.
This treatise was written between 85-90 AD.

Third John: Addressed to the church leader who is concerned with management and organization.
                                                                                           Tash
                                                                                                it
The teaching of the Church is flawed. The date of writing of this treatise is also years ago.
It is from 90-85 AD.

Book of Revelation
The only prophetic book
It is the New Testament and was written by the apostle John in the last decade.
First century and probably during the time of the persecution of the church by the emperor
"Domitian" was written. This book is the most suitable writing to conclude
It is a gift to the collection of holy books, because they speak of end-time events.
He says.

Elm
T.E.
Ara
Tish
                        it

Chapter 7

Archaeology and the Bible
                                                                     Elm
T.E.
According to the dictionary definition, archaeology is "the study of
The scientific study of the life and culture of ancient peoples, with the help of excavations of ancient cities and
"Discovering various ancient artifacts." Our discussion in this section includes archaeology.
                                                                                  Era
It becomes the Bible.
                                                                                        Tash
Its archaeological value
Archaeology is not just the science of "rock and soil"! Because for the student
The Bible is a useful tool and can help him in the following ways:

1- Explains and explains the Bible to him: Probably the greatest
This is the help that this science provides. Today, thanks to the discoveries
Archaeology can reveal the social and religious customs of the period.
Understand the Bible better. The language of the Bible is also more understandable.
It has been done, because in new translations of the Bible, the Greek and Hebrew words
The original versions are more clearly translated.

2-Completes the Bible: The Bible writers essentially "complete" the
The message of salvation was of interest, resulting in detailed geographical, historical,
Anthropology, etc., are not found in their writings. For example, the destruction of "Shiloh"

86Chapter Seven


which was an important center of worship, is not mentioned anywhere in the Bible.
But excavations conducted by a Danish archaeologist,
It showed that this temple was destroyed in 1050 BC.
The Canaanite religion and the abominable practices that were practiced during idolatry and under the name
                                                                       Elm
T.E.
ف
There is an Old Testament. But they performed religious ceremonies, there are signs in
Archaeological discoveries have made the ugliness and immorality of these practices even more evident.
It has been made and shown how disgusting the worship of Baal was.
                                                                                    Era
                                                                                          Tash
                                                                                               it
3- Confirms the accuracy of the Bible: The Bible needs
It is not "proven." Those who accept it as the inspired Word of God,
They do not need reasons or evidence, and those who reject it do not have any evidence.
Archaeologists will not be convinced either. But there is also a third group that
Archaeological discoveries serve them well, and they are the ones who
There are those who are close to the salvation of Christ and have an open mind and heart, but there are issues in
It is their minds that do not allow them to accept the Bible in its entirety.
This is where archaeological discoveries come to their aid.
Here we refer to the words of two famous American archaeologists.
Neither of these two scholars are evangelical or conservative Christians, but they are
The Bible has revealed valuable material. William Albright, 1st University Professor
Hopkins says: "There is no doubt that archaeology, authenticity,
Historical
"It has confirmed the Old Testament." Miller Burroughs, a professor at Yale University, also
He commented:

1 William Albright; 2 Millar Burrows

Archaeology and the Bible 87

"One of the valuable services of archaeology is undoubtedly the confirmation of the accuracy of the material."
The number of archaeologists who have excavated in
"The Palestinians have gained more respect for the Bible, no less."
He adds:
                                                                         Elm
T.E.
"In many cases, archaeology has refuted the theories of the New Critics."
It has been proven time and again that these theories are based on false foundations and
are artificial and mental. This real service of archaeology should not be underestimated.
                                                                                      Era
"Considered important."
                                                                                            Tash
Here we need to point out two important points. First, the discoveries
Archaeology has not solved all the problems of the Bible. Students
                                                                                                 it
The Bible hopes that this science will lead to the discovery of more works and
Thus, he proves more things from the Bible. From the services
Archaeology can be concluded that in the future it can also be done in three
The above should be effective for believers in the Bible. Secondly, we must know
Some of the theological aspects of the Bible are completely out of context.
archaeology or any other science. For example, no evidence or reason
Science cannot prove that Christ was born of a virgin, and this
The matter must be accepted on faith. The only thing science can prove is this.
It is said that a child was born in Bethlehem who later became known as Jesus Christ.
It became.

88Chapter Seven


Archaeology as a science
By 1800, more information than was found in the Bible and other
History books about the contents of

                                                                      Elm
The Old Testament existed, it was not available. The beginning
The science of biblical archaeology can be considered as 1798, that is, a time
An officer in Napoleon's army found a strange stone in Egypt. The Rosetta Stone.
T.E.
                                                                                   Era
It was a black stone slab, one meter long, 70 centimeters wide, and


                                                                                         Tash
30 centimeters thick. There are inscriptions in three languages on it:


                                                                                              it
In ancient Egyptian, hieroglyphics, the common language of Egypt in the second century BC
BC, and Greek. Scientists succeeded in deciphering two inscriptions from the Greek language.
Read the other meaning as well. The writing included a charter from the priests.
Egyptians in describing and respecting kings. Other important discoveries were also made,
But it was in the twentieth century that valuable works were created to confirm the contents.
The Bible was obtained.

Archaeological work: Biblical archaeology seeks to find remains of
It is past time to determine their value and provide information.
Stone inscriptions, dates on coins, patterns on jars and figures
It studies vessels, and human and animal remains. Most of these
Discoveries made by excavating "tombs" (mounds under which a city is buried)
These cities are buried underground for several reasons.
In some cases, humans have been responsible for the destruction of cities and the destruction of civilizations.
Sometimes another city is built on top of a destroyed and buried city,

Archaeology and the Bible 89

So that archaeologists have to be careful when excavating a mound.
So that they know how many layers there are in it, because each layer may be related to the city.
and a different civilization and provide new information about them. Of course, destruction
These cities were not always built by human hands, but by earthquakes, storms,
                                                                          Elm
T.E.
Fires and deadly diseases sometimes lead to destruction and depopulation.
The cities have been visited.

                                                                                       Era
                                                                                             Tash
Dating artifacts: A question that archaeology constantly asks is this:

                                                                                                  it
"What date does it relate to?" Modern science uses the "carbon-14 method" to
Archaeology has come to the rescue. All living things die when carbon dioxide is present.
They absorb carbon from the air, along with a very small amount of carbon-14.
They represent their bodies. This is true for humans, animals, and plants.
When a living thing dies, this radioactive carbon that was absorbed into the body,
It begins to decay in a perfectly coordinated and precise process compared to non-radioactive carbon.
By comparing the amount of carbon-14 that still remains in the dead body,
The remains, with the amount that was present in that body during life, scientists
They can determine the time of death of that organism with particular accuracy.
Another method used in this case is "sequential dating".
It was invented by Sir Flinders Petrie, the famous Egyptologist.
His analysis of vessels found in a "mound" showed that
In each layer of the mound, there was a specific type of container. Coins and fragments
The inscriptions also provide an effective aid in dating the remaining fragments of these vessels.
They showed him, so by classifying pottery vessels by shape and size,

90Chapter Seven


Decorations, materials, etc., these objects and related layers can be carefully
He dated it specifically.

A few selected examples of archaeological discoveries
                                                                         Elm
T.E.
Nuzi Tablets: Archaeology has been able to uncover the remains of the ancient city of Nuzi.
which was located southeast of Nineveh and dates back to the 15th to 14th centuries BC.
These discoveries bring us closer to the customs and traditions of Mesopotamia during the
                                                                                      Era
The book of Genesis is familiar. These works tell us how a person
                                                                                            Tash
A stranger could become an heir to a family (read Genesis 1:15-3).
A couple without children could adopt a boy,
                                                                                                 it
On the condition that he promises them honor that when they die, he will bury them with respect.
In return, he could inherit the couple's property. But if
If a son were born to this family, this contract would be canceled.
When Esau sold his birthright to Jacob (Genesis 30:25)
(34) His work was based on the traditions found on the Nuzi tablets, because
These tablets show that such transactions were common between two brothers.
After this incident, we see Isaac unable to fulfill the verbal blessing that was given to him.
Jacob had given to take back, and again from these tablets we learn that such a blessing
Oral, sacred, and unchangeable.

"Teraphim": mentioned in Genesis 25:31, are actually idols or
They were family gods who, according to the law of "Nozi", whoever possessed them

Archaeology and the Bible 91

He was going to own all the family property. That was why
Alban insisted on taking them back!

Moses as the Author of the Torah: Bible Critics in the Past
                                                                         Elm
T.E.
The authors of the Torah did not know, because they said that writing was still in progress at the time of Moses.
It was not popular. But archaeology has proven that Moses could

                                                                                      Era
He has written in several languages, other than the famous script.

                                                                                            Tash
Egyptian hieroglyphs discovered by the Ras Shamra tablets, written with

                                                                                                 it
The letters were also common in the 15th century BC. The "Ugaritic" dialect, which
The inscription on these tablets resembles the Hebrew language. Furthermore, the law
The famous "Hammurabi" (king of Babylon), written two to three centuries before Moses
The Bible's claims that Moses is the author of the Torah are
Paying attention to the history of calligraphy that archaeology has discovered, a special aspect
Found.

The Ras Shamrah Tablets: Until recent years, our knowledge of Canaanite religion,
It was exclusive to the Bible. But in 1929, in "Ras Shamra" located in
Syria, a peasant woman discovers the city while plowing a field
The ancient city of Ugarit was reached. This city dates back to 2000 BC.
He had a library containing hundreds of tablets in different languages.
In these tablets, information about the Hebrews and other ancient peoples can be found.
The texts of "Ras Shamra" are especially important in that life
They destroy the religion of the Canaanites. They worship Baal and other Canaanite gods who

92Chapter Seven


It is mentioned in 1 and 2 Kings, with particular precision in the texts of the Book of Numbers.
It has been described. We will mention one of these cases here: In religion
The Canaanites allowed boiling a kid in its mother's milk to bring about rain.
This fact makes the meaning of Exodus 19:23 clearer, for God
                                                                      Elm
T.E.
Hebrews says, "You shall not boil a kid in its mother's milk." This was a formality that
Their pagan neighbors did, so they had to stop doing this.
Avoid.
                                                                                   Era
                                                                                         Tash
                                                                                              it
Hittites: The Hittites are mentioned more than 40 times in the Bible.
However, critics were skeptical about their existence, because in
There was no trace of this people in world history. But archaeological discoveries today
It has been shown that they were a powerful people (2 Kings 6:7).
The "Tel al-Amarna Letters", which date back to the 14th century BC and were discovered in
Discovered in Egypt in 1887, it appears that the Hittites even lived there for a time.
They ruled Egypt.
Then in 1906, in Boğazköy, Türkiye, the capital of the Hittites, a library was opened.
It was discovered containing 10,000 clay tablets. It is known from the archaeological remains of this region
The Hittite Empire conquered many parts of the world at that time.
It is inferred that the Hittites ruled Palestine twice.
Randhand. Genesis 9:23-16, 34:26, and 1 Kings 20:9-21 contain
There is information about the Hittites.

Archaeology and the Bible 93

King Solomon's Mines: Mentioned in Deuteronomy 9:8 and 1 Kings 45:7, 46
It has been made from iron and copper ("brass"). Dr. Nelson Gluck has succeeded,
In "Arba", a region between the southern end of the Dead Sea and the Arabian Gulf, veins
It obtained a lot of copper and iron. Discoveries showed that during the time of Solomon
                                                                     Elm
And in the centuries that followed, mining boomed more than ever.
Then Dr. Gluck succeeded in finding "Esyoun Jaber", a thriving city in Tay.
It was the time of Solomon, near the Gulf of Aqaba. Here he found the greatest
                                                                                  Era
Found a metal smelting factory in the Middle East. This factory was built in the 10th century AD.
                                                                                        Tash
It was built, and undoubtedly it was built by order of Solomon, who at that time
The situation of this city was such that the wind
                                                                                             it
The north wind blew regularly, creating a natural wind tunnel for the kiln.
Melting creates metal!

ََْ َ
Belshazzar as King: The Book of Daniel states that Belshazzar was the last king
It was Babylon. Critics of the Bible often pointed out that according to
World history, the last king of Babylon was "Nabonidus" and as a result of the story
The Bible is based on the Bible. In 1854, on the site of the ancient city of Ur.
Pillars were discovered, one of which contained a prayer by King Nabonidus for
His son Belshazzar was seen. Later inscriptions showed that Nabonidus was in
Babylon was not his and his son reigned in his place. Belshazzar was named
He was known as the "second ruler." According to one of the tablets of King Cyrus,
Four months before the fall of Babylon, Nabonidus was captured and imprisoned by Cyrus.

1 Nelson Glueck

94Chapter Seven


This inscription marks the removal of Nabonidus from the throne and the reign of his son.
Justifies.

The census at the time of Christ's birth (Luke 1:2, 2): Critics believed that
                                                                         Elm
T.E.
Cyrenius was the ruler of Syria at the time of Christ's birth, but also for many years after.
That. By the way, Augustus Caesar did not prescribe such a registration either.

                                                                                      Era
Sir William Ramsay1 showed with historical evidence that Carinius ruled twice.

                                                                                            Tash
It was Syria, the first time in the years 7-10 AD and the second time a few years later.

                                                                                                 it
The year after the birth of Christ. But since historians disagree on the year of Christ's birth,
There is no consensus, most likely Christ was born during his first reign.
Ramsey then showed from ancient evidence that every fourteen
A census was conducted once a year, and one of these censuses was conducted before
It was after the death of Herod the Great, who died in 4 BC.

All the above information, which is a handful of information, strengthens believers.
The Holy Book becomes and undoubtedly gives convincing reasons to those who seek truth.
To believe that the Bible is the Word of God! And now to explain one of
We will discuss the greatest archaeological discoveries of the last century.




1 Sir William Ramsay

Archaeology and the Bible 95

Dead Sea Scrolls
A goat that strayed from its flowers led to the religious discovery of the last century!
In 1947, a shepherd boy in the northwest of the Dead Sea, while
He was looking for his lost goat, and his eyes fell on a large hole in a rock.
                                                                           Elm
Inside the cave, there were various jars that were later found by tribal men.
T.E.
                                                                                        Era
They were discovered. A stone hitting one of the jars forced them to enter the cave.


                                                                                              Tash
All the jars were empty except for one large one. In it


                                                                                                   it
The large jar contained three leather scrolls. This was the beginning of subsequent discoveries in that area.
Eleven caves have been identified in the area so far, and they contain scrolls.
Various finds have been found, most of which date back to the first and second centuries BC.
It is interesting for Bible students that these scrolls
Contains all the books of
The Old Testament, except for Esther, and some of the scrolls are complete.
They contain parts of a book, among which can be found the scroll of Isaiah.
Before the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls, the oldest known copy of the
ف
The Old Testament was in my possession, dating back to 900 AD. But with the discovery of this
The scrolls are now copies of
We have the Old Testament in our hands, which is 1,000 years old.
It is older than previous versions! One of the most striking results of this discovery
The Old Testament is consistent with previously existing manuscripts, and these scrolls are
(They have unique features.) The previous versions were known as "Maserati" versions.
(See section two.)
In addition, the remains of a Jewish community have also been discovered in this area.
It probably belonged to the "Esinha" or a society similar to them. They lived

96Chapter Seven


They had ascetics and separated themselves from the rest of the Jews in order to truly worship God.
They had separated. It was this same group that the copies found by the sea
They wrote about the dead. In this area, in addition to various writings, there are even
Pots with dried ink have been found in them! The works of this group, the mouth
                                                                        Elm
T.E.
It has closed down liberal critics because they said some of his writings
ف
The New Testament could not have been written in the first century because it contains ideas
which did not become popular until the second century. But with the discovery of these scrolls it became clear that
                                                                                     Era
The ideas they criticized were among the writings of this group that were published before 70.
                                                                                           Tash
The Gospel of John was the main target of attacks.
These critics have been, but archaeology has proven that the contents of the Gospel of John
                                                                                                it
It was written by the apostle John himself shortly before the end of the first century.

Chapter 8

Prophecy and the Bible
                                                                       Elm
T.E.
Prophecy is one of the most important elements of the Bible. The books of the major prophets and
ً
They are all considered prophecy. Of these minor prophets, as well as the book of Revelation,


                                                                                    Era
In the past, prophecies were also recorded in every other part of the Bible.


                                                                                          Tash
First, it is necessary to explain the word "prophecy". Similarly,

                                                                                               it
As you know, this word means "prophecy". Moreover, the concept
It also includes the presentation of a message from God. The meaning of revelation is also in this word.
It is hidden, because a prophet is someone to whom God has revealed something.
And he, as God's spokesman, must deliver His message to the people. As is evident from the contents
ف
The Old Testament shows that the message of the prophets was related to the needs of the people of their time.
Sometimes this message has had a prophetic aspect. However, in this section
We will use the words "prophecy" and "prophecy" synonymously.

Preliminary considerations
In addition to the above definitions of prophecy, it is necessary to note the following points:
Note:
-1. God's Foreknowledge: God is the only One who knows the end of everything from the very beginning.
He knows (Isaiah 46:9, 10). He is the eternal “I AM” (Exodus 3:14). And for him
The past, present and future are the same. This is not easy for us to understand,
But we must keep in mind that whatever the future holds for us,

98Chapter Eight


God is present. Therefore, prophecy is the revelations that God gives to man.
It allows humans to see the future.

2- The sovereignty of God: In prophecy, God is seen as the ruler and God of history.
                                                                          Elm
T.E.
We see. Although man turns the affairs of the world, in reality it is God who
It determines from heaven when a nation will rise to power or perish.

                                                                                       Era
This fact can be clearly seen in the book of Daniel, how

                                                                                             Tash
He predicted the rise of various empires. Furthermore,

                                                                                                  it
We see that God manages history in such a way that when the time comes to perfection,
His Son is born (Galatians 4:4).

3- Promise and its fulfillment: Since the ultimate purpose of the Bible is to provide a blueprint
It is the salvation that God has provided for mankind, so it is clear that
The heart of Bible prophecy will also belong to this main purpose.
Considering this, Genesis 15:3 takes on special significance, because in
It is here that the prophecy of the coming of the Savior is first observed.
This Savior will be from the seed of the woman (i.e., a human being).
was), and will crush the serpent's head (i.e., will defeat Satan).

-4. Unity of the Bible: In the previous lesson, we saw that
The Old Testament Preface
It is the New Testament, and it completes it. It can be said that in
The Old Testament is about
Christ and Christianity are seen in many works. This point is made clearer.
It can be seen that if we keep this in mind,
The New Testament is more than

Prophecy and the Bible 99
600 times from
                                       Old Testament
Quoted literally or implicitly. Almost.
It can be said that every page
The New Testament through showing the fulfillment of prophecy
The Old Testament or the references therein to a subject, with
Old Testament
It is related.
                                                                      Elm
5-Symptomology: or typology is the study of events,
T.E.
                                                                                   Era
People, holidays, and ceremonies
The Old Testament, which are in some way a manifestation of what

                                                                                         Tash
The New Testament is fulfilled. For example, the study of
The New Testament is fully illustrated in


                                                                                              it
It is said that the Passover, which the Jews kept (Exodus 12), was dedicated to the death of the Son of God.
God referred to him as the Lamb of God. "Our Passover, Christ, was slain for us."
"It has been done" (1 Corinthians 5:7). Christ's death happened on the very day of the Passover.
Examples of phenomenology can be seen especially in the book of Hebrews.
A scene that shows how Jesus Christ as priest and sacrifice
The New Testament, the completion of the ceremony
It was the Old Testament. Even an anonymous figure like
Melchizedek (Genesis 18:14) was a type of Jesus Christ (Hebrews 5:6-10).

Characteristics of prophecy
Biblical prophecy has several features that need to be noted:
1- Prophecy permeates the entire Bible to such an extent that understanding the Word
God is not possible without it. In other words, prophecy is an inseparable part of revelation.
It is a holy book.


1 Typology

100 Chapter Eight


2- Prophecy is not a "scientific prediction" or a vague general statement.
Saying "it will rain this summer" is a general statement.
Saying "It will rain on April 14th at 10:30 in the morning"
It is an accurate prophecy. In many Bible prophecies, information is given
                                                                         Elm
T.E.
It is presented with great accuracy, because the names of people before their birth, the description
Wars before they happen, the fate of individuals before they are even born.
They have come.
                                                                                      Era
-3. The fulfillment of Bible prophecy is clear.
                                                                                            Tash
-4- Sometimes prophecies are about the very distant future or about governments and individuals who are in
It deals with the fact that they did not exist at the time of prophecy. A clear example of this is the explanation
                                                                                                 it
Daniel is speaking about the governments that will come after Babylon,
It gives.
-5 Prophecy deals with events that are humanly unforeseeable.
They are predictions, because man does not have the power of foreknowledge. Man may
Accurate calculations can predict, for example, the time of a solar eclipse, but
Prophecy deals with matters that are humanly impossible to predict.
In fact, sometimes prophecy is the exact opposite of what humans naturally expect.
He guesses - like the fall of great cities and civilizations, at a time when
They had reached the height of their greatness. The destruction of Jerusalem in 586 BC is an example.
It is from this fact.
6. The fulfillment of prophecy confirms its truthfulness (Deuteronomy 18:20-22).
If a prophecy does not come true, it falls “to the ground” (1 Samuel 19:3). In Isaiah
22:41 and 23 we see that the value of prophecy lies in its fulfillment. Prophecy is fulfilled.

Prophecy and the Bible 101

It constantly strengthens the faith of Christians and promises them that God
He will also fulfill his other promises.

Principles of Interpreting Prophecies
                                                                               Elm
Interpreting Bible prophecies is not an easy task, because the language of prophecy is
It is specific and cannot be easily understood. Most of the time, prophecy is expressed in a specific way.
It is said to be symbolic, like the Book of Revelation. Another reason is that because it is
                                                                                            Era
It deals with the future, it is not possible to say very clearly how far in time it will go.
                                                                                                  Tash
Another reason prophecy is difficult is that the entire Bible
From Genesis to Revelation, it has a prophetic nature. Despite all these problems,
                                                                                                       it
The Bible student should not despair, for some principles of interpretation exist.
He is helping him.
The following principles are taken from the book "The Science of Biblical Interpretation in the Protestant Religion"
We have quoted the writings of Bernard Ramm:

1- You have paid enough attention to the type of language of prophecy. If the symbolic aspect
It has a strong meaning, be careful not to interpret it casually and superficially. In
ً
The reader must ask himself: "What does the author mean by this metaphor?"
What is it? Are the locusts of Revelation 3:9 and 7 literal or symbolic?
Is it used to express a destructive force that cannot be expressed?




1 Bernard Ramm; 2 Protestant Biblical Interpretation

102Chapter Eight


2- Study the historical background of the Prophet and his prophecy. To understand prophecy
Obadiah, we need to know the kingdom of Edom. Jeremiah and Ezekiel must be
He studied the Babylonian captivity.
3-Remember that the prophets were not official speakers but rather
                                                                        Elm
T.E.
There were "preachers" who sometimes had dreams. That is why the writings of
They are not as ordered as we expect.
4-Search the entire Bible to see if there is a passage that is synonymous with prophecy.
                                                                                     Era
If you find a case study, read it and learn more about it.
                                                                                           Tash
5- See if the passage you are reading is purely prophetic, or is it a sermon?
Do it.
                                                                                                it
It is given to people at a certain point in time to strengthen and educate them.
6- See if the passage you are reading is conditional or not. This is very important.
Some promises that God has made, regardless of the circumstances, are
Man must do, they will come true. Great promises of
Old Testament
They are about the coming of the Savior. God promised the Savior.
He sends it without imposing any conditions on man. On the other hand, the prophecies
We also have a condition, as we read in Deuteronomy 28. God's blessings come when
It will come when the people obey. If the people disobey, a curse will be upon them.
Another interesting example is Jonah 4:3, which at first glance is a prophecy.
"It seems unconditional: 'After forty days Nineveh will be overthrown.'" But
When we read the entire text, we see that this "prophecy" is fulfilled conditionally.
He wanted Nineveh to not repent.

Prophecy and the Bible 103

7- Note whether the prophecy has already happened or is in the future.
It will happen. Some prophecies have been fulfilled, others are yet to be fulfilled.
Some are being completed, and some are not yet completed (such as
The second coming of Christ.
                                                                       Elm
T.E.
8-Beware of multiple prophecies. Sometimes a prophecy may be
How many different times and subjects does the "abomination of desolation" in Daniel indicate?
It was spoken of in 168 BC. It was put on the garment of action and it
                                                                                    Era
There was a time when the pagan king of Syria, Antiochus Epiphanes, destroyed the Temple of Jerusalem with
                                                                                          Tash
Sacrificing a pig on its altar made it impure. Yet we see Christ
It says that this prophecy of Daniel will come true in the future (Matthew 15:24, Mark 15:11).
                                                                                               it
(13:14) Here we see the near and distant fulfillment of Daniel's prophecy.

Prophecies that have come true
In the last part of this lesson, we will explain the fulfillment of important prophecies.
Which is mentioned in the Bible.
The end of the northern kingdom of Israel: Hosea prophesied (4:1, 5) that “the kingdom of
I will destroy the house of Israel, and in that day I will break the bow of Israel in pieces.
"I will break the valley of Jezreel." From this prophecy we understand that Israel will be removed from the scene.
History will disappear and the kingdom of Israel will be completely extinct.
In 721 BC, when the Assyrian army conquered the land of Israel, this
The prophecy came true. Israel (the northern ten tribes) never returned to the land of Canaan from that time on.
The power did not arrive.

104Chapter Eight


The fate of Edom: Obadiah prophesied that the Edomites would be destroyed by both the nations and the
They will be suppressed by the Jews. History is witness to how
Nebuchadnezzar the Babylonian, then the "Nabataeans" and then the Romans dominated this people. In
During the intertestamental period, the Jews also conquered the land of Edom. This
                                                                        Elm
It can be found in the First Book of Maccabees as well as the writings of Josephus.

The Destruction of Nineveh: Nahum's Prophecy is Actually a Prophecy and Description of the Destruction of This City
T.E.
                                                                                     Era
                                                                                           Tash
In this book we read that Nineveh will perish like a drunkard.


                                                                                                it
Part of the enemy's victory over Nineveh was that the people there
They were so confident in themselves that instead of thinking about defending the city,
They spent their time in revelry and fun. When the city
It was under siege, the river level rose and part of the wall collapsed.
He destroyed the city. The Median soldiers poured into the city and completely destroyed it.
They did (read 8:1).

Prophecies about the Messiah: A Bible scholar has estimated
That 250 prophecies about Christ are in
There is an Old Testament (from 1500 BC).
400 BC (which occurred during his birth, life, death, resurrection, and ascension)
Below we mention a few:
1- Birthplace of Jesus Christ - Bethlehem (Micah 5:2)
2- The ministry of Jesus Christ in Galilee (Isaiah 1:9, Matthew 2:13-16)
3-Betrayal of Jesus for thirty pieces of silver (Zechariah 11:12, Matthew 27:5-10)
-4 The Crucifixion of Jesus:

Prophecy and the Bible 105

(1) He cried out, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?"
                                         (Psalm, Matthew 1:22) (46:27
(2) The mockery of the onlookers (Psalm 8:22, Matthew 43:27)
(3) Description of the condition of the person who was crucified (Psalm 22:14-17)
                                                                      Elm
T.E.
(4) The casting of lots on Christ's garments (Psalm 18:22, John 19:23, and 24)
5-His resurrection (Psalm 16:8-11, Acts 2:24-28)
6-His Ascension (Psalm 68:18, Ephesians 4:7-10)
                                                                                   Era
                                                                                         Tash
                                                                                              it
Prophecies expressed by Christ: We will mention only two:

-1. The destruction of the temple (Luke 5:21-6): In 70 AD, Roman general Titus
And his army entered Jerusalem and completely destroyed the temple.
2- The rule of the Gentiles over Jerusalem during this period (Luke
(24:21) This prophecy has also been completely fulfilled.

Elm
T.E.
Ara
Tish
                        it

Chapter 9

How should one study the Bible?
                                                                         Elm
T.E.
In the "Great Commission," Jesus Christ tells us that we must go out to all nations.
"Let's make disciples. Disciple-making is done through education.": Ishan
"Teach them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you" (Matt.
                                                                                      Era
(19:28, 20) Teaching God’s Word to others is undoubtedly an important task.
                                                                                            Tash
But the teacher must first be a student himself. When he himself studies
If you make the Bible your profession, you will soon discover that the Word of God is so
It is deep and has no end. In this chapter and the next, I will provide ways and means
We will examine what enables a better understanding of the Bible. God of
Each of us wants to strive to make ourselves acceptable to God, a factor that
"He must not be ashamed, handling the word of God well." (2 Timothy 2:15)
Now let's look at topics that have a direct connection to the Word of God.

Basic characteristics
The minimum requirements that a Bible student must have are:
-1. New birth by the Spirit of God. Otherwise he cannot know the truths.
Understand the Spirit (John 3:3; 1 Corinthians 2:9; 2 Corinthians 3:4; 4:11).

108Chapter Nine


2- Complete trust in the Holy Spirit (John 13:16). The Holy Spirit is the author.
The Bible is the one who can best help us understand
It helps. You should study the Bible with prayer and trust in God.
3- Deep respect for spiritual things and importance of faith. Because
                                                                       Elm
T.E.
The Bible is the Word of God, there are some things in it that should simply be understood.
He accepted it with faith, even though it could not be understood with the finite human intellect.
4- A heartfelt desire to know the Word of God. The Bible is the plan of salvation.
                                                                                    Era
that God has designed for man. Therefore, the student of the Bible must
                                                                                          Tash
Be eager to study this plan of salvation.
5. Desire to devote oneself to serious Bible study. Having a passion.
                                                                                               it
It is not enough, but we must use all the possibilities for serious study of the Bible.
Used.
In short, it can be said that a student of God's Word must be a believer.
Whose view of the Bible is one of desire, humility, expectation, and seriousness.
It is.

Methods of studying the Bible
There are two general methods for studying the Bible. The comparative method, which is
It starts with a basic belief or teaching and then goes on to prove and confirm it.
The Bible is referred to. Such a method is good in its own way, but
One must be careful that one's preconceptions do not prevent one from seeing the facts.
The student's inductive method first completes the problem before reaching any conclusions.

How should the Bible be read? 109...

He studies the passages related to the topic in question in the Bible.
This method is the best way to study the Bible, but it should not be at the expense of
Putting it another way would lead to. But for the purpose of this chapter and the chapter
In the future, we will use the inductive method.
                                                                            Elm
There are several basic and general methods for studying the Bible:
T.E.
                                                                                         Era
Below we will mention the most important of them:

Biographical Method: In addition to moral teachings, the Bible includes God's relationship with
                                                                                               Tash
Humans. In the biographical method, an attempt is made to understand everything that the Bible says.
about a specific person, be collected. The first step is to collect all
                                                                                                    it
Study the parts of the Bible that talk about the person in question.
For this, you can use the book Kashf-e-Aliat. Then you should follow the tips
The main thing is to write his life in order from birth to death. The next step is to analyze and
It is an analysis of his character. Was he a godly and righteous person? Was he a
Was he an atheist? What factors led to this? Was he previously a believer and
Then did he fall into sin? Questions like these make him feel good.
Let us understand it and learn spiritual lessons from it for our lives.

Thematic method: The purpose of this method is to understand the Bible,
Or what a book of the Bible says about a specific topic.
For example, we can consider the word faith. Then, with the help of a scientific
You can find all the verses about faith. Each of these verses
You should study it and take notes on what is in that verse about the subject.

110Chapter Nine


Then all the notes should be sorted. In this way, the student
The Bible will lead to conclusions about the Bible's teaching on faith.
Instead of a word, a subject can be studied with this method.
Made an appointment.
                                                                        Elm
Basic Teaching Method: This method also often uses the principles of the thematic method.
T.E.
                                                                                     Era
is used, but sometimes it goes further than that. This method can be


                                                                                           Tash
To study a basic Christian doctrine (such as God, Jesus Christ, salvation)...


                                                                                                it
In a book from the Bible, for example, you could use "The Return of Christ"
He studied the epistles of the Thessalonians. The disciple read these epistles
He reads, then notes down whatever he sees in them about that topic.
Then it sorts the information obtained. Another way is to
Consider a short passage from the Bible and try to understand everything that is in it.
Take notes on the subject you are interested in. For example, by studying
Galatians 1:1 and 5 can answer the following questions: What about God the Father?
Does it teach? About Jesus Christ? About salvation?

Comparative method: Verse should be compared with verse. Comparative or comparative method
can be defined as: a method in which a portion of the Bible is used to
Interpretation and explanation of another part are used. Given that
ً
Naturally, one would expect that the Bible is actually a book,
Its different parts can be adapted to each other. Parts of
The New Testament is quoted. In this method of study, the Old Testament is quoted throughout.
ف

How should the Bible be read? 111...
The student must understand the context of the text.
Study the Old Testament. Sometimes the same
The Bible author elsewhere explains the same subject in a different language.
These must be found and put together to form a complete opinion about
The desired topic is obtained. This method is used to compare the contents.
                                                                       Elm
T.E.
The Bible is used about an event, such as some miracle.
Christ, who appears in the Gospels, or the story of Paul's conversion, which is repeated three times
(Acts 9, 22, and 26)
                                                                                    Era
Historical Method: Since the Bible is inherently a historical book, it
It is not possible to fully understand it without considering the factor of "time". Often
The historical context of a book makes the contents of the book clearer. For example, the book of Revelation
Man will understand it better if he knows that it was written during a time of persecution.
This method can also be used to record historical events in the Bible.
When it comes to understanding these events, we should use interrogative words such as when,
Why, where, what, and who used it. You should describe the event in question in
If possible, relate it to other events and other people. From these events
What conclusions do we draw? What intellectual help do we get to understand God's revelation in
Does the Bible help us? Another help this method gives us is this.
That we understand what customs and traditions were in place at the time the book was written or the event occurred.
It has been a common culture.

The combined method, also called the book method, is intended to:
That the reader understands the overall message of the book. This is achieved by reading it several times.
The desired book is provided. Every time the reader wants the book

112Chapter Nine


study, it should be done in one sitting. The purpose of the first study,
It is a study of a book in order to discover its main theme. In the second study,
The reader should understand the development of that important topic by paying attention to
Key words, phrases, or content that help you understand the main topic of the book.
                                                                       Elm
T.E.
Finally, in the third reading, the reader turns his attention to the paragraphs
He gives each of them a title. Following this, the heads
He will write the contents of the book, and thereby the summary or composition of the book.
                                                                                    Era
He will have a specific version of the Bible at his disposal.
                                                                                          Tash
The order of Bible study
In this section, we will focus on analyzing parts of the books.
We will have a Holy Mass. In cases of intensive Bible study, such as
When preparing lessons for the Happiness Center, the following order must be followed. This order
They are especially used when the text being studied is a short section.
The size of a paragraph.
1-Viewing: The purpose of this stage is for the reader to interact with the content.
Gain a general understanding of the passage in question from the Bible. This text should be
Read several times and answer the questions who, where, when, what, etc. in
The answer should be related to the text. Attention should be paid to the main words and terms.
and considered the relationship of the different parts of the paragraph to each other.
Can you find a logical relationship between them (like "because")? Are some of the contents repeated?

How should the Bible be read? 113...

Are there any synonyms or antonyms between two or more components? Before
The reader should take notes of all these observations before moving on to the next step.



                                                                         Elm
T.E.
                                                                                      Era
                                                                                            Tash
                                                                                                 it

114Chapter Nine


2- Interpretation: The purpose of interpretation is to identify the author's intention and purpose.
The Bible student must put himself in the author's shoes and ask questions of this kind.
Ask yourself: Why does he say that? What did he mean by this term? In this
This is the stage where the student must use available reference books and references.
                                                                      Elm
From answering the above questions, the results should be summarized in such a way that
The main message of the text being studied can be reached in several ways.
This is what was concluded: by simplifying the text and expressing it in your own language,
                                                                                   Era
By a short, concise sentence, by a diagram or outline.
                                                                                         Tash
Major ideas.
                                                                                              it
3- Evaluation: The main goal of this stage of study is to
Differently analyzed the text in question to determine which facts
They are eternal and can be valuable for the present time as well.
Now we need to know which topics are general and which topics are limited to time.
They are themselves. Some rules
The Old Testament was only for the Israelites, like the Haram and
Halal food. Therefore, it is not right to ask Christians to do the same.
On the other hand, there are some things that, although they are about
It is stated specifically, but it is also true for future times, such as Deuteronomy 27:1-2.
30, which includes physical and spiritual blessings for Israel if they obey God.
obey, and physical and spiritual punishment if he disobeys. The message in
It is here, it is true for all times, meaning that someone will be blessed.
who obeys and the punishment will be for the one who disobeys, even if in

How should the Bible be read? 115...
ف
The New Testament teaches that physical blessings are not necessarily the result of obedience to God (in fact,
God-fearing people are persecuted.

4- To agree: After interpretation and evaluation, the Bible reader should
                                                                             Elm
T.E.
Ask: "How can I apply these truths to my life and the lives of others?"
"Tenth?" It is dangerous if you finish your Bible study in the third stage.

                                                                                          Era
It is at this point that the purpose of the Word of God according to 2 Timothy

                                                                                                Tash
16:3 and 17 wears the garment of action. At this point the reader must allow

                                                                                                     it
The Holy Spirit speaks to him through the Word. Some of the questions he should ask are:
This step involves:

(1) What truth is there here that we must accept, and why?
(2) What idea should I keep, adopt, or change?
(3) What actions should I avoid or change?
(4) What sins should I confess and forsake?
(5) What example should I follow?
(6) What promises can I claim as my own and are these promises
Do they have conditions?

5-Application: You must apply the truths that result from a passage of Scripture.
We should also compare it with other parts of the Bible. We should never take a
We should not base our fundamental belief on just one part of the Bible. Rather, we should
Studying the entire Bible will help us gain a sound and correct belief.

116Chapter Nine


Required equipment
To understand the Bible clearly, the reader can use reference books.


                                                                          Elm
Please help. Below is a suggested list of these books so that
The reader has access to them, knows how to use them. This
Resources can be provided in English, and there are fewer of them in Persian.
T.E.
                                                                                       Era
It is.

Bible: Different types of Bibles can be found in English.
                                                                                             Tash
Some have useful subtitles and are helpful in finding verses related to a
specific subject, help the reader. In some of these Bibles,
                                                                                                  it
There are discoveries, historical charts, etc.

Bible Guide 1: In terms of Bible context and historical order, and
archaeology, etc., will be of great help to the reader. In fact, a kind of
It is a small commentary that every Bible reader needs.

Revelation of verses 2: which may be a topic or a verse. Some
The great revelations include all the words of the Bible, but for
Bible study can also be used to discover small details.

Dictionary 3: To identify people, places, customs and traditions of the Bible
We need a dictionary. Currently, there is only one dictionary in Persian.
There is one that is not very usable because of the very old vocabulary.

1 Bible Handbook; 2 Concordance; 3 Bible Dictionary

How should the Bible be read? 117...

Commentary: It is possible to have a commentary for the entire Bible in one volume.
But usually, for each book of the Bible, there is a separate commentary volume.
They prepare.
Bible Atlas: Includes maps and geographical information.
                                                                           Elm
Some historical information can also be found.
T.E.
Apart from the above books, there are other reference books that can be
                                                                                        Era
Help the reader, such as basic teaching books, index of topics
                                                                                              Tash
Important, biblical customs, etc.
                                                                                                   it

Elm
T.E.
Ara
Tish
                        it

Chapter 10

How should the Bible be interpreted?
                                                                       Elm
T.E.
The art of biblical exegesis is a science that develops principles, rules, and methods
It organizes and classifies in order to understand the meaning of the writings of the Bible.
The word "hermeneutics" is derived from the Greek words meaning
                                                                                    Era
"To interpret" or "to explain" is because the Bible is God's message.
                                                                                          Tash
It is necessary for man to understand clearly and accurately what God has said in it.
Let's find out so that we can recognize his voice from the human voice. From this
In the past, there was a great distance between the thoughts of our time and those of the writers of the Bible.
There is a need to know this science, because the Bible is a book
It is an old country whose customs and traditions are somewhat unfamiliar to us, and its language is also
It has no resemblance to our language, and it is also a book that has been around for 1500 years.
It has been written by many authors.
The grammatical-historical method is a traditional method of biblical interpretation that
It is used by conservative and evangelical Protestants. According to this method,
First of all, the Bible must be interpreted according to common rules of grammar and
The meanings of words were interpreted. This included accepting the literal and non-literal meanings.

Words and sentences become. Bernard Ram says: "The apparent interpretation and
Non-figurative is nothing but the interpretation of words and sentences in their natural state,
"Normal, common, and suitable for them."

1 Hermeneutics; 2 Literal

120Chapter Ten


Secondly, according to this method, the Bible should be read according to the time when it was written.
Let us interpret its contents and know that in order to understand it correctly,
The Bible requires knowledge of the culture and history of its people. Furthermore,
The historical context of each book of the Bible is essential to the study of that book.
                                                                        Elm
T.E.
This historical context includes the time of writing, the reason for writing, and the circumstances of the author.
It will be.
General principles of the science of interpretation
                                                                                           Tash
                                                                                                it
The principles presented here are from Bernard Ramm's famous book entitled
"The Science of Biblical Interpretation in Protestantism" is adapted:

-1. The priority of the original language: Given that the Bible was originally written in the
Written in Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek, it would be best for the reader to
can learn these languages. But of course, for every reader, this possibility
It is not available. Therefore, it is recommended that every student of the Bible
Various translations into Persian and, if possible, other languages
be available. We will explain this further below.

2- The compatibility of God's revelation with human thought in order to understand that revelation: the truths
The eternal is told to us in a language that we can understand. For example,
The Bible speaks of the arm of God, which does not mean that
God has a physical body like us, but the intention is that through this
Express the power of God in language we can understand.

How should the Bible be read? 121...

-3 Gradual revelation: God did not reveal everything to man at the beginning.
Teachings such as the Holy Trinity and the resurrection of the body, until the time of
The New Testament is completely clear.
It hadn't been done.

4- Historical situation: The interpreter of the Bible must learn from the intellectual characteristics of
People who lived in different historical situations in the Bible, provided information
For example, some people interpret Christ's words in the Gospel of John 6 about eating
                                                                                      Era
His body and blood are considered a reference to the Lord's Supper. While in that
                                                                                            Tash
At that time, the Lord's Supper had not yet been instituted by God.

5- Not knowing: Sometimes the interpreter must humbly admit that he does not know.
                                                                                                 it
Because there are things in the Bible that no exegetical book or theological book can explain.
It is unable to provide us with a clear and unambiguous answer, as in 1 Corinthians.
1 Peter 3:19 and 29:15.

-6 Differences between interpretation and application: It is possible for a Bible passage to be
It may not have more than one interpretation, but it may have more than one application. For example, "drunk"
"Do not get drunk on wine" (Ephesians 5:18) can be interpreted in one way. But
This same verse can be applied to the lives of Christians in several ways, one of which is
One of them is that Christians should not involve themselves in things like
Wine has an adverse effect on them.

-7 Comparison with other scientific disciplines: How does archaeology contribute to understanding?
What does this mean? World history and anthropology...how?

Chapter 122


8-Establishment: Search the Bible to discover the truth, not
To find a reason in it to prove your opinion. Try to understand the meaning.
Discover the truth of the verses, not trying to make meaning out of them yourself.

-9 Clear interpretation: When we read in Colossians 6:1 that the gospel is "in all
The "world" was announced, it is understood that this includes China, Russia, and Taiwan.
It doesn't mean South Africa, but rather the whole world, different parts.
                                                                                      Era
The world at that time was a colony of the Roman government, but from the point of view
                                                                                            Tash
The writer and readers of Colossians were considered to be practically "the whole world."

10-The Holy Spirit as Interpreter: The Holy Spirit is the teacher of the church (John
                                                                                                 it
(13:15, 14, 16, 26) who as the author of the Bible can understand the mind
To enlighten Christians as they study God's Word (1 Corinthians 2:10).
(16) But this reliance on the Holy Spirit should not replace effort and deep study to
Knowing the meaning of the Word takes the place of studying the Bible. The Holy Spirit
It doesn't take it away, but rather makes it effective.

-11 Qiyas Iman 1: In simpler terms, this principle says: "Verse must be compared with verse."
"compare" or "one verse interprets another verse". More than any rule
Another rule can help the Bible interpreter to understand the original meaning.
He should know the verses and not fall into doctrinal error. This principle is based on this
Given that the Bible contains all the basic teachings, events, topics, concepts, and


1 The Analogy of Faith

How should the Bible be read? 123...

The promises are consistent with each other and with the specific purpose of the Bible as it is written.
2 Timothy 3:15-17 are in perfect harmony and consistency.



                                                                        Elm
The analogy of faith can be made according to some of its important principles, which are given below.
is, better understood:

(1) No fundamental teaching (doctrine) should be based on one or more verses.
Miscellaneous obtained and established.
                                                                                     Era
(2) The best and healthiest way to obtain a basic education (doctrine) is
                                                                                           Tash
It is possible that we can find it in several parts of the Bible.
Let's do it.
                                                                                                it
(3) We should leave the ambiguous verses alone and look to the clear verses that
They are discussing the same thing, let's go. Let's take 1 Corinthians 19:15 as an example.
Consider. What does baptism for the dead mean? Although interpretations vary
There are many variations of this verse, but one thing that is clear from the verses of the Holy Bible is
It can be understood that the meaning of this verse cannot be that the living
They can be baptized vicariously to save the souls of the dead.
(4) Short passages from the Bible that mention a fundamental teaching
(doctrine) in it, it should be considered with regard to the major and large parts that it
It explains a particular teaching in detail and in detail.
1 Corinthians 15, the doctrine of the resurrection is explained in detail, therefore, this
The chapter on each verse that specifically refers to the subject of resurrection,
It is in advance.

124Chapter Ten


(5) The concepts and themes of the teachings found in a specific place in the Bible.
It is not possible to find an explicit verse for it, it must be interpreted in light of "general interests".
The New Testament very clearly shows that the Bible was accepted. For example,
Jesus Christ was true God and true man, but the verse or part of it
                                                                         Elm
T.E.
The Bible does not present this matter in a "washed and gone" manner.
(6) If two doctrines are found quite clearly in the Bible
which seem contradictory, both must be accepted. How did Jesus Christ
                                                                                      Era
Can one be fully God and fully human at the same time? How can one be free?
                                                                                            Tash
Did he justify human will in light of God's sovereignty and providence? Of course, between these
There is not necessarily a contradiction, but rather a kind of contradiction or
                                                                                                 it
There is a contradictory analogy between them, and in this respect it creates a problem for us.
They say that our thinking is limited and incomplete.
"Ram" summarizes the above with this sentence: "If the Bible, the Word
It is divinely inspired, so there should not be more than one theological system in it, even if
"You can't easily create a system like this."

Special principles of the science of interpretation
1- Studying the words: This should be done according to the time of writing.
The meaning of words in the twentieth century is different from the meaning they had in the first century.
This is why it is necessary to use the search engines, dictionaries, and
Authentic translations are revealed for a complete and correct understanding of the terms.

How should the Bible be read? 125...

2- Grammatical interpretation: Sufficient attention should be paid to the tense of the verbs and
The imperative moods are used. God created language to convey His message to mankind.
chose, so to understand some parts of the Bible, you have to
Grammar rules were given sufficient attention.
                                                                             Elm
3- Pay attention to the content: The interpretation of any passage or verse of the Bible must be in accordance with the context.
Attention should be paid to the verses before and after and the general content of that section.
                                                                                          Era
In addition, the general and comprehensive teaching of the Bible in relation to its contents is also
                                                                                                Tash
It should be kept in mind (the analogy of faith).

4-Reference to relevant verses: The interpreter should refer to verses synonymous with the subject matter.
                                                                                                     it
For example, John 1 and Philippians 2 both deal with the doctrine of the "incarnation."
"God in Christ" deals with. So to understand each of these chapters
The other chapter should also be studied. Furthermore, the commentator should read the entire
Other parts of the Bible, such as the Gospels, which deal with that subject,
Study and compare the materials they contain.

5- Metaphorical language: In general, the original and apparent meaning of words must be preserved.
But sometimes, there are cases where words lose their original and primary meaning.
They set themselves aside and, in the form of parables, similes, etc., give themselves another meaning.
When the term "Lamb of God" is applied to Christ, in this case,
The word "lamb" does not have its common and ordinary meaning, but is used metaphorically.
It is gone.

Chapter 126


Bible Problems
Those who study the Bible seriously are all about


                                                                        Elm
It is a common truth that understanding some parts of the Bible,
It is difficult, even impossible. One reason for this is that the Bible
It is a divine book that contains eternal truths, such as the Holy Trinity, the Incarnation,
T.E.
                                                                                     Era
Resurrection, which the imperfect and limited human mind is unable to fully comprehend. But


                                                                                           Tash
On the other hand, it should be understood that the main message of the Bible, which is the plan


                                                                                                it
The salvation of God is through Jesus Christ, everyone, no matter how much they understand.
If it has any imperfections, it will understand, provided that the heart and mind are prepared for it.
Understanding the rest of the Bible is of secondary importance.
We should not lose faith in God just because we don't understand everything.
God, let us lose the value of divine truths through the power of understanding and talents.
It is not measured.

The reason for the problems with the Bible
Apart from the reason mentioned above, there are several other reasons that can be
They justify the difficulties of interpreting the Bible, including:

1-Incomplete translations: No translation of the Bible is perfect. Some
ً
They are relatively better than the others, but still free from translation errors, without a doubt.
So the problem is not in the original language of the Bible, but in the translations.
It is from that original language that it was derived.

How should the Bible be read? 127...

-2 Neglect in reading the full text: At first glance, between 1 Corinthians
There is a contradiction between 9:6 and 10 and Matthew 31:21. But when you read the full text,
Let us read (i.e. Matthew 21:28-32) then this apparent contradiction will be resolved.

3- Not paying enough attention to the text: It is stated in Numbers 9:25 that 24,000 people were killed.
They died from the wings, while in 1 Corinthians 8:10 the number is 23,000. T. E.
But if we read the verses carefully, we will notice that in 1 Corinthians the number
                                                                                        Era
The casualties have come "one day".
                                                                                              Tash
4- Lack of knowledge of the customs of the time of the Bible
-5. Ignoring the views of the Bible writers: It has often been said that
The teachings of Paul and James regarding faith and works contradict each other.
(Galatians 2:16, James 2:17, 26) But Paul speaks of faith as the foundation
Salvation speaks, while James emphasizes that
The authenticity of faith is proven in action. Paul says the same thing in another language:
He recounts it in the last two chapters of Galatians.

How to face problems?
When you encounter a problem while studying the Bible, in addition to
In addition to the methods we mentioned in the previous lesson, you can also try the following tips:
Please note:

128Chapter Ten


1. Pray for the guidance of the Holy Spirit. If no solution is immediately offered,
Wait again.
2-Consult with an experienced Bible teacher or minister who is versed in the Word.
Do it.
                                                                         Elm
T.E.
3- Read a commentary book or another useful book on this subject.
-4- Never put the Bible aside because a topic is difficult.

Various translations of the Bible
                                                                                            Tash
Keep the following in mind regarding various translations of the Bible:
Submit:
                                                                                                 it
1- There is a difference between word-for-word translation and interpretive translation. In the former
An attempt is made to translate the words of the original language exactly, while in the second
An effort is made to achieve the main purpose.
2- To clarify understanding of some difficult topics and also in case of lack of
Access to commentaries, interpretive translation can be used. But for
Deep preaching and study of the Word, traditional and appropriate word-for-word translations
It is.

3- However, none of the translations are inspired like the original text.

4- To better understand the verses, it is good to use all translations.

